Impact Aid Survey forms are due to your 5th period teacher on Nov. 6th. Any Student returning a delinquent Impact Aid forms to their 5th period teacher after November 9th will be placed into Administrative detention until the form is turned in, and not be permitted to sign up for an 8th period activity. After Nov. 9th, in order to qualify for an 8th period signup for Nov. 11th, the form needs to be delivered to the security office in the Administration wing ONLY, no later than 2pm on Nov. 10th. The cutoff for each detention will be 2pm the day prior to a red day, until all forms are collected.
It is that time of year again! Time for TJ’s 7th Annual Poetry Out Loud Recitation Contest. The first grade-level competition will be on Wednesday, November 11th during both A and B blocks in the Black Box Theatre, and the second will be on Friday, November 13th, same location. If you need additional information, please contact Mrs. Henry at . Come out and support the spoken word!
Hey TJ! Have a cool project idea that would benefit the school, but no funds to do it? Submit a proposal for the One Question grant for a project or idea relating to this year’s one question to get money to make the project a reality. This year’s One Question is: How can we foster a sense of community in our inherently competitive environment? Go to , under the students tab, to the one One Question page for a link to a proposal submission form. The deadline to submit is Friday, November 20th.
TJ has acquired a site license for Matlab which enables all faculty and students to download and use Matlab for academic purposes on both personal and school-owned computers.
To download your copy, follow these steps:
The yearbook staff has been working on this year's volume of the yearbook since last June. They are so excited to share it with the entire TJ community, and we all hope you love it as much as we do.
LAST DAY TO SUBMIT IS 5/31Our school is now using a pilot program called x2VOL to track student service learning hours. .
May 20, both blocksMay 27, one blockMay 29, one blockJune 3, both blocksJune 5, both blocks
If you ever print or use computers in the LIBRARY, read on. 
--Mrs. Carpenter and the Librarians
Hey TJ! The month of April is Sexual Assault Awareness Month. Show your support for survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence for SAAM2015 by wearing teal on WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29. By participating, it lets survivors in your community know: We believe you, we support you, and we're ready to put a stop to sexual violence for good. For more information, give us a visit at .
What does the harvesting of palm forests have to do with orangutans, the great apes of Africa, and the Pop-tarts and donuts you eat? NPR podcasts help you get acquainted with the topic that is the focus of work that Dr. Glenn Hurowitz is sharing with TJ audiences on Wednesday of Environmental Awareness Week. Read or listen for ways you can help establish more sustainable production of palm oil at .
It is due by the end of next week and remember&nbsp;students don't have school on Friday!&nbsp; So get it in by Thursday!
We have created an informative video describing the new changes. 
Lunchtime Info Session on George Mason University, Friday, March 27 in Room 242A: Juniors interested in George Mason University are invited to attend a lunch info session on Friday during lunch in Room 242A. Our speakers are Ms. Carpenter, who has a son enrolled at GMU, and Coach Heidi Smith, who went there herself. They will share their experiences with GMU and answer your questions. Bring your lunch! 
Techstravaganza, a hands-on science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) activity day for local elementary and middle school students, will be on Saturday, April 11th at Holmes Middle School! Please sign up to volunteer at if you have any questions.
 For the first time in recent TJ history as an after-school event, come to the auditorium on Friday, March 27th from 5-6:30pm to witness 13 valiant contestants battle it out for the glory of the title of Mr. Colonial! **Tickets are $5 and will be sold Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday during lunch in the AudLob and at-the-door** Each contestant, introduced by an escort, will be participating in a Talent Show, Q&amp;A, and Fashion Show to determine the grade-level Mr. Colonial. Afterwards, each grade-level Mr. Colonial will compete live in a Jimmy Fallon Lip-Synch competition and with LIVE AUDIENCE VOTING, we will crown THE MR. COLONIAL! This will be the most hype event of the year, and there's no school the following week so you have no reason not to show up! The Class of 2017 will be selling food as a part of RTC from 4-5pm, so you won't even have to leave the building! Your contestants are: SENIORS: Edward Fortunato Jafr Kazmi Sumved Ravi JUNIORS: Milan Bharadwaj Connor Jones Rishab Negi SOPHOMORES: Timmy Chan Justin Lee Nick Yoon FRESHMEN: Scott Becker Aman Shankardass Franklyn Wang David Yan
Interested in exploring the works of J.R.R. Tolkien? Discussing the film adaptations? Enjoying sweet snacks on a Friday afternoon? Look no further than J.R.R. Tolkien Club. The club meets twice a month; the next meeting is on Friday, March 27th. Join us.
Interested in reading and discussing books? Look no further than TJ's Book Club! Book Club meets twice a month, with the next meeting on Friday, March 13th during B-block in Trailer 35. The focus for this month is Terry Pratchett's Pyramids. Should you have any questions contact the club at .
 Do not unplug computer equipment. If you accidentally unplug something, please plug it back in. Do not remove the mouse or keyboard from the computer. Do not leave trash behind. No eating or drinking. 
 The 2nd offering of the AMC will take place on Wednesday, February 25 during 8th period. Students already signed up who wish to switch the exam they are taking (i.e, from 10B to 12B or 12B to 10B) or students not previously signed up who now wish to participate, need to contact Ms. Razzino () no later than Friday, February 13 at 4pm. Please bring $4 to room T17 to complete your registration.
 Students participating in the NACLO contest should report to the Library no later than 9:45am. Remember to bring pencils and lunch. Any questions, email Miss Galanos at. 
Most of the privacy concerns regarding FCPSonboard are related to the XpressConnect app. Here’s a few things you may want to know about this app: The app is used to download a certificate that authenticates your FCPS credentials and puts you on the correct wireless network. Once you’ve installed the certificate, you no longer need the app and you can and delete it. You have to reset your FCPS password every school year (this also resets your FCPS GAE password). You also have to renew the certificate every school year with your new credentials. Thus, after you reset your FCPS password each school year, you will also need to re-join FCPSonboard and re-download the XpressConnect app to reinstall the certificate. So you only need to have the app on your phone for a few minutes once every school year. Once the certificate is installed, you can delete XpressConnect. This app is not downloaded on iOS devices-they have a different method of installing the certificate If you need help connecting your device to the WiFi, please see Ms. Tecuci in room 14.
Come see the TJ Bands at our Winter Concert Friday December 12 A &amp; B block and Monday December 15 B block. The Symphonic Band (A Block) and the Wind Ensemble (B Block) play the 12th. The Jazz Ensemble and Combo play the 15th. Featuring selections such as: Family Guy Theme Monsters Inc. Theme Sleigh Ride Deck the Halls Pirates of the Caribbean The Nightmare Before Christmas Howl's Moving Castle Lord of the Rings It's gonna be a great concert and we hope to see you there!
Due to renovation-related demolition, library computer and printing services may be disrupted. Please plan on printing from home.--The Librarians
If you need assistance joining the FCPSonboard network, please see the links below for specific instructions for your operating system. Instructions Additional assistance will be provided by the Computer Tech Assistants club in the Aud Lob on Friday during 8 th period A block, as well as on Monday during 8th period.
Oh my gosh, Juniors and Seniors who STILL do not have GAE (Google Apps, @fcpsschools.net) accounts should sign up for the upcoming available sessions during 8th period, starting Nov. 12 and Nov. 19. If you are seeing this message, you have NOT properly set up your Google Apps account. Alternatively, come on a Monday or Wednesday to either side of the library at the beginning of lunch, only. You need passwords for these accounts for several reasons: items that affect your grades are being collected using the GAE accounts. Signing up for a senior lab requires a GAE account, juniors, and that process begins real soon! The FCPS password is needed to get onto FCPSmobile network. THAT is the only network you can use to access by proxy to library databases when you are using a personal device on campus. The other school networks don’t give data base access by proxy on campus. We’ll explain all of this in the session. You’ll have extra time when we’re done with the account set ups to treat as a study hall. See you then if you are STILL not accessing your GAE account. We want to help! --Mrs. Carpenter
Interested in computer science? World languages? Puzzles? If so, then the NACLO competition may just be for you. The North American Computational Linguistic Olympiad is a contest in which high-school students solve linguistic puzzles. In solving these puzzles, students learn about the diversity and consistency of language, while exercising logic skills. No prior knowledge of linguistics or second languages is necessary. Professionals in linguistics, computational linguistics and language technologies use dozens of languages to create engaging problems that represent cutting edge issues in their fields. The competition has attracted top students to study and work in those same fields. It is truly an opportunity for young people to experience a taste of natural-language processing in the 21st century. The first round contest will take place on January 29. Practices will be held on Fridays starting this week during B-block in T19. Sign up for NACLO practice to see what the fun is all about! (You can still participate if you can’t come to the practices, for details.
TJTED is having a meeting this Friday B Block for the Ambassador Project, a project in which students will contact and interview foreign ambassadors to gain a better understanding of diplomacy and international relations. This Friday's meeting will serve to compile contact information of foreign ambassadors to the US, and to start assigning countries to pairs of students. Because the interviews will take place in pairs, we strongly encourage that both you and your partner attend Friday’s meeting. The groups that help to compile the contact information on Friday will have the first pick of the country whose ambassador they will contact and interview. Preliminary research of your choices of consideration is strongly suggested. Email TJTED at to get the project description handout, if you missed the interest meeting, or if you have any questions.
 The One Question this year is: “How can we strive to discover and pursue our own passions despite societal norms and external pressures that would compromise our aspirations and dissuade us from pursuing them?” The One Question steering committee is brainstorming ways to make this question more relevant and exciting to the TJ community, so participation and input would be fantastic! In the future, we are planning to invite speakers to TJ and host 8th period blocks for the One Question, so come out and help make an impact at TJ! The One Question steering committee meets on Monday 8th periods.
 The annual Sadie Hawkins Dance (girls ask guys) will be October 24th after the football game till 11:30. There will be music, a movie, and dancing! Tickets will be sold for $5 at the door and in advance. If you buy your ticket during pre-sale, 20th till the 24th, during Asking Week, you get a free Ghostie Gram. Asking Week will be October 20th - 24th! Ghostie Grams will be on sale in the Senior Lounge (Rm. 128) for $1.50 each or 3 for $4 from October 16th till the 28th. 
 TjTODAY is covering student reactions to the new USDA health guidelines. 
Important! All Juniors and Seniors must activate their Google Apps for Education and take a survey confirming that they have done it by Oct. 20. If you are seeing this message, you have either NOT activated GAE, or activated GAE but have NOT taken the survey and must do so. Activation can only be done from a teacher computer, and also resets your FCPS Network password (which you need to do every year to be able to use the wireless networks on your personal device). Go to any of your teachers, the library, or room 110 to complete activation. The survey requires an FCPS Google Apps account login. It can be taken from any computer once you have completed activation. 
 The Annual Homecoming Dance is this Saturday, 8-11pm at TJ! Dance Tickets go on sale this week during lunches in the Junior Lounge/ Planetarium Lobby! They are on a SPECIAL price of $10 Monday, Tuesday, &amp; Wednesday and will be sold for $20 on Thursday, Friday, and at the door the day of the dance on Saturday. Reminder: Homecoming Dance Guest Forms are due Wednesday at 3:50pm to the main office or . Hardcopies of the form can be found in the main office or an electronic copy can be found in a previous intranet post. Homecoming Spirit Week is THIS week (9/22-9/26). The Daily Spirit Days are as follows: MONDAY - "Date Night" aka Dress Your Best TUESDAY - "Opposite Day" aka Pair up with someone and dress the opposite WEDNESDAY- "We are uNITEd" aka Group Day THURSDAY - Class-y Night aka Class Theme Day (Seniors "Hollywood Nights", Juniors "A Knight in Shining Armor", Sophomores "Back in the Day", Freshmen "Starry Night", Faculty "Friday Night Lights") FRIDAY - "Independence Day" aka Class Color Day (Seniors: Toga, Juniors: Blue, Sophomores: White, Freshmen: Red) Be sure to head over to the daily pep rallies held in Gym 1 during break Monday through Thursday to cheer your heart out! The Annual Homecoming Money Wars begins this Monday! Support your class' homecoming efforts and the "Iraqi Children Foundation" charity by donating money into lockers 615-618 (the old physics hallway i.e. middle hallway downstairs). Seniors donate to locker 615, Juniors to 616, Sophomores to 617, and Freshmen to 618. 
TJHSST is seeking families to host students from the Ewell Castle School in Surry, England from October 22 – 26. Hosting an “exchange student” is a terrific experience that provides your student an opportunity to learn about the similarities and differences of students from a different country. In addition, the Ewell Castle School is hoping to arrange a return trip for students of hosting families. Link to the Ewell Castle School website: .
Want to write for the newspaper? Take photos for the yearbook? Shoot video for broadcast? Want to do it all? You're in luck: all of TJ Media's award-winning, nationally recognized publications now meet during 8th period. Sign up for TJ Media Wednesday (A or B) or Friday (A) for an interest meeting. You'll find out everything TJ Media has to offer and then some!
Hey TJ! Don't forget that Homecoming Week is the fourth week of school (September 22-26) and ASKING WEEK is NEXT WEEK (September 15-19). Get your ask on, TJ! This year's Homecoming Dance will take place at TJ on Saturday, September 27th from 8-11pm. Tickets will be sold from September 22-26 during lunch in J-Lounge/ Planetarium Lobby for $10 Monday through Wednesday and $20 on Thursday and Friday. They will also be sold at the door for $20. If you would like to bring a non-TJ guest to the dance, please fill out (hard copies available in the Main Office) and return electronically to sga.tjhsst@gmail.com or the Main Office by BY 4PM on Wednesday, September 24th (no exceptions!) Remember, this is NOT a form you can fill out in the last minute, so plan ahead! On Thursday, September 25th, a list of all approved guests will be posted outside the Activities Office in the AudLob. If your guest's name is not on the list, they may NOT attend the dance. 
Final first-day schedules are now loaded into Intranet. No more schedule changes will be made before the first day of school. You MUST attend the classes listed on Intranet and in the email you will receive for the first day of school and unless/until you are specifically instructed otherwise by a Counselor or the Director of Student Services.
Hey TJ! During the last few days of school there will be a sandwich making session to make sandwiches for a local homeless shelter and a Construction Worker Party to help thank the workers for all of their hard work, but we need YOUR help! We are asking for food donations to be dropped off by this Friday to Trailer 33 (right outside the J-Lounge)! 
 Congratulations to your Honor Council Members for the 2014-2015 school year! 
Hey TJ! Do you want to help the incoming freshmen have a smooth start to their high school experience and make them feel welcome as part of the TJ community? If so, please apply to be a BigSib! This year, the selection process will be more selective to make the program as successful as possible, so please make sure you can make a commitment to be engaged and enthusiastic for your Little Sib's entire high school career. . Thank you so much! 
 Congratulations to your student government leaders for the 2014-2015 school year! 
TJ Students, Ms Murphy and Ms Hudak need your help! We need students to help with physicals. You would helping with data entry and helping with students moving from one station to the other. Sign up with your friends! Get community service hours! Here is a chance to give back to the athletic training program! To volunteer, go to and follow the Sports PPE links.
Students who wish to visit the library MUST bring a pass from their teacher. Even if you are just popping in to print. No pass/no entry—sorry! (Remind your teachers of this need before you come all the way here.) Thanks! 
The TJ Partnership Fund needs student videographers to film the tjSTAR reception, taking place at the McLean Hilton on Thursday, May 29th from 6:00 - 8:00 pm. Please respond to by Tuesday, May 27th if you're available and interested.
Not participating in J-Day Basketball but want to get in on the hype? Submit a completed bracket with your name and grade on the top right corner by noon this Friday 5/23 to Trailer 33 for a chance to be crowned winner of the May Madness 2014 Bracket Challenge (there will be a prize!!!). WOTS is that Warren Buffett received his inspiration to create his Million Dollar Bracket Challenge from this May Madness itself.
With the Class of 2014 having only a few weeks left at TJ, did you just realize how much you're going to miss your senior friends? Do you have a senior crush that you've been too scared to say anything about? Do you have any words or confessions that you've been too shy to tell a senior about? Would you like to send your graduating friends a sweet gift? Well now is your chance! On May 27, 29, and 30 during lunch in Room 129. Seniors, Juniors, and Underclassmen can buy candy grams to be delivered to seniors on June 2nd. Candy grams may be anonymous and are $1.00 each or eleven for $10.00. Candy options are Skittles and Hershey Bars. If you would like to fill out forms ahead of time, . You can write all over, on the back, and attach as much additional paper as you need! If you have any special requests to go along with the delivery of your candy gram, let us know when you pay! 
The 2014 tjSTAR will take place on Wednesday, May 28th. The Symposium will feature presentations of amazing student research projects, guest professional speakers from the STEM community and exciting demonstrations and displays: Microstrategy’s smartphone-controlled vending machine, NASA’s Infrared Camera, Google Glass, Human Powered Submarines and more!. Registration for all sessions is now open. Don’t delay! Registration closes on Thursday, May 22nd.
Thank you so much to everyone who came to TEDxTJHSST! Hopefully you enjoyed it and also learned a lot. If you attended the conference, we’d appreciate so we can make future conferences even better. Thanks again! 
Overwhelmed by the sudden influx of J-Day forms? All forms are currently up and it will continue to be updated with booth maps, booth information, and performances! 
J-Day "May Madness" Basketball Tournament is rapidly approaching... Which one of you are willing to take the challenge to compete against arguably the most talented, cohesive basketball teams the world has ever seen? Register your team . Bring forms to T-33 and turn it in to the appropriate folder on the SGA Bulletin Board to the right. All money MUST be handed directly to either Ms. Razzino or Mrs. Hurowitz. Questions, comments, and concerns can be directed to tournament coordinator Jenny Kim or sga.tjhsst@gmail.com. May the Madness Begin! 
 Unfortunately, due to low interest the Class of 2015 has canceled the practice AP US History and AB Calculus exams scheduled for Saturday, March 29 at TJ. If you have already paid for these tests, stop by room 129 next Friday during eighth period to be reimbursed. The Class of 2015 apologizes for any inconvenience. 
Summer Opportunities Info Session, Friday, A Block: Rustic Pathways, which offers community service, language immersion and other experiential education programs for high school students all over the world, will be in giving a presentation in the CCC on Friday, March 14. The speaker is Erin Murphy. Community Service Opportunity Info Session for Girls, Friday, B Block: Learn about community service opportunities with ZONTA International, a worldwide organization dedicated to improving the status of women through service and advocacy in a presentation in the College Career Center on Friday, March 14, during B Block. The speaker is Carol Beechler.
Jefferson Consulting wants to get your feedback on I-Night. .
Students, we really need your help. We are trying to keep the library open for your use during JLC. However, it is very sad to report that a student’s rudeness to one of our valuable JLC parent volunteers means that we’ve lost another one of them. We cannot keep the main library and library computer classrooms open during JLC without the supervision provided by our parent volunteers, so we have special “quiet study” rules for JLC mornings that really must be adhered to by all of our students. Do your part to make the volunteers feel respected, valued and thanked for their service to you while librarians are at meetings on JLC Thursdays. Please print at home Wednesday nights in case you do not get access to the library’s spaces during JLC. -- Mrs. Carpenter
Military Information Night tonight, Robinson Secondary School, 7:00-9:00 p.m. : Interested in a career as a military officer? Come to Robinson Secondary School tonight to learn about attending West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. ROTC reps will also be on hand to answer questions about ROTC programs and scholarships for college. (5305 Sideburn Rd. Fairfax, VA)
TJ’s second TEDx conference will be held on April 25th during 6th, 7th, and 8th periods! Sign up for 8th period to hear inspiring talks by students, teachers, alumni, and parents related to our theme, “Overachieve: How do we surpass mediocrity in pursuing our passions?” 6th and 7th periods are open to class sign-up only, so ask your teachers to sign your classes up. If you have a unique idea you would like to share at the conference, please . Please encourage parents and teachers to apply as well. Please email tedxtjhsst14@gmail.com with any questions. TEDxTJHSST is an officially licensed event of TED.com. All talks will be recorded and posted on the TEDx website.
Do you miss doing exciting hands on projects? Do you want to put your newly learned physics/ other knowledge to the test? Are you free Friday A block and looking to go to a club thats exciting, and has food? If you answered yes to any of these questions come to Active Science Alliance this Friday A-block and join us in doing an egg drop lab! (free food will be provided!)
 It's simple: click on the absence link from your home page, print the page and ask the teacher to sign off that you were there -- be sure to include the name of the activity that you actually attended. Return the sheet to room 134 and you're done! To keep from getting an absence:
Attention TJ Students: The Virginia High School League (VHSL) is offering 2 scholarships: Allstate Scholarship: 4 scholarships: (1) Male Athlete, (1) Female Athlete, (1) Academic Activities student, (1) Courageous Achievement. Scholarships will be selected based on the following criteria a. Candidates must have earned a Varsity letter b. A minimum grade point average of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale c. Involvement in other school activities outside of school (work, charities, etc) d. Two letters of support e. A maximum of 500-word typed student essay describing how extracurricular activities have enhanced his/her educational experience. f. A Head and Shoulder photograph Wells Fargo Citizenship Award: This scholarship provides $1000.00 dollars for (12) graduating seniors who wish to further their education at an institution of higher learning, including universities, colleges and trade schools. Scholarships will be selected based on the following criteria a. Graduation at the end of the current school year b. Participation in at least one activity offered by the VHSL c. Contributions to family, school and community d. Promotion of good citizenship and sportsmanship e. Two letters of support, one from a school official and one from any other non- family member with knowledge of applicants contributions to citizenship f. Essay (must be typed and should be between 500-1000 words) by the student Applications should be submitted to the Career Center or Activities Office no later than March 7th If you have any questions please contact Linda Kropf in the College Career Center or Rusty Hodges in the Activities Office
Engineering Week is Feb. 16-22! Come to the College and Career Center on Wednesday, February 19, during either A or B Block to learn more about engineering careers from Dr. William Kilpatrick of the Society of American Military Engineers. Dr. Kilpatrick will be joined by engineering colleagues and GMU students in a discussion of the field of engineering. The speakers will also give information on engineering camps and scholarships.
Info Session on Summer internship with the Federal Government: A representative from the Department of Agriculture will be in the College and Career Center on Wednesday during A Block to talk about a job shadowing day in March and summer internships at the Department of Agriculture. Info Session on Global Public Service Academies for Health: Students interested in a career in medicine, who would like to spend this summer working on public health projects in Latin America or the Caribbean, come to the College and Career Center during B Block on Wednesday to hear from TJ Junior, Sage Teasley, about Global Public Service Academies for Health.
Remember HackTJ from last year? Well, get pumped for its bigger and better successor: PilotDC! PilotDC is a 24 hour event where you can bring your idea to life with help from the area's top engineers, designers, and entrepreneurs! With lots of free swag and free food too, ! Don't know much about coding? No problem, beginners are welcome. Come and create an awesome app or website!
It's the week you've finally all been waiting for... RTC ASKING WEEK (Upperclassmen ask Underclassmen) from Monday, February 10th through Friday, February 14th! Then stay after school on the 14th and head over to Menchies from 4-7pm and mention you're supporting "TJ 2015" to support the Junior Class while eating a sweet treat before you head to the Varsity Basketball Double-Header Senior-Night Game! Please note that there is NO RTC dance this year. 
 Auditions are after school on February 19 in the Performing Arts Wing. Prepare for your audition or just come and have fun at the Musical Theatre Workshop on February 11 &amp; 12, 4:00 – 6:00. Sign-up in the Performing Arts Wing.
A message from JEFFERSON HSST Dear TJ community, This afternoon, FCPS adjusted the end of semester exam calendar to a two-day period so classes can meet before exams are taken. As a result of this decision, please disregard the message about schedules sent at 11:10am this morning. Our schedule moving forward, regardless of inclement weather cancellations, will be: First day back (January 24): Blue (periods 1-4) Second day back&nbsp;<span style="font-size: 13px;">(January 27)</span>: Red (periods 5-8) Third day back: Blue exams Fourth day back: Red exams and make-up I look forward to welcoming everyone back to school. Goooooooooo Colonials!Evan Glazer 
If you’re interested in a really amazing summer leadership experience, where you make life-long friends from around the world – and tuition is free-- come to the College and Career Center on Friday, Jan. 17, during B Block, to learn about Camp Rising Sun. This is a leadership camp in Upstate New York whose alumni include former UN officials, ambassadors and well-known writers and filmmakers. Hear from TJ classmates who went last year about how it has impacted their lives. 
Please submit your nonsensitive science fair project forms to room 121 work by January 6. Remember, this is the first day of school after the winter break! For Sensitive Projects: Your paperwork has been reviewed by TJ’s Scientific Review Committee. Please find your sponsor ASAP for a list of necessary corrections, and see Dr. Burden in 141wk before winter break to discuss how to correct your submission. For any other questions or concerns, please email Dr. Burden (dkburden@fcps.edu), or visit his office in room 141 wk.
 Churros...Friday, December 13th, Future Problem Solving will be selling fresh churros in the J- Lounge during break for $1 each. Come out before they sell out and support them for the upcoming Qualifying Problem!
 Did you know that TJ has 22 solar panels on its roof? In order to expand clean energy use in the county's schools, TJ's Environmental Impact Club is petitioning the School Board to create a process for Parent-Teacher Associations to raise money for solar energy. 
In honor of the #HourOfCode movement that was launched this week for Computer Science Education Week 2013, we're going to be planning a few 8th period CS tutorials in January and February. We want YOU to decide what they're about! We're hoping this will be a nice jump start to the upcoming Hackathon that is also in the works for the spring. 
Do YOU want to be published? We want your prose, poetry, photos, music, and art to be featured in Threshold, TJ's Literary Magazine! Did you know TJ also has its own writing contest? Submit prose or poetry to the theme of "Cipher" to the Shadwell writing contest! Submissions will be sent for judging to authors around the country, and the winning pieces will be featured in a special section of the Threshold magazine! Pick up a submission form for both Threshold and Shadwell from a folder around the school or your English classroom and drop them off to the box outside Room 107 or .
Please extend the deepest congratulations to the following students for making it to the TJ Poetry Out Loud Finals: Zara Batalvi - Faith Ellen Lam - Clarissa Scoggins - Ian Car - Cedric Bernard - Bailey Knight - Maya Omais - Nila Selvaraj - Dylan Seng - Nur Simsek - Jose Acuna - Mathew Alexander - Aldrayne Cabansag - Pegah Moradi - Hannah Pho - Lucia Tian - Iris Hyon - Nan Baker - Sara Mueller Finalists, please make sure you have two poems prepared and two copies of each of your poems for the judges! Good luck. 
Interested in applying to West Point or Annapolis, or just curious to know what it’s like to go there? At lunchtime, the College and Career Center is hosting a current West Point cadet, Molly Shannon and, during 8th Period, current Annapolis cadet Josh Chester. These students can answer your questions on applying to a service academy and living in a structured, military environment. Sophomores and Juniors considering applying to one of the service academies are particularly encouraged to attend. Be sure to remember to sign up for the Annapolis session during 8th Period.
To register for the F=ma physics competition, bring an envelope with $5, your Name, and your Email Address by Tuesday, November 26th! Hand the envelope to one of the physics team officers (Ivy Ren, Archis Bhandarkar, Shankar Balasubramanian, Arun Kannan, or Ray Liu), preferably during physics team Friday B Block. There will be no exceptions to the deadline, and we will not accept your registration if it doesn't have all of the pertaining components. Details on the competition can be found at .
Want to help shape the future of TJ? Please take 3 minutes to respond to and keep TJ at the forefront of innovation. Thanks.
 After 7 years of work, TJ3Sat is finally launching! The launch window opens at 7:30pm on Tuesday, November 19th out of Wallops Flight Facility and will be the first high school built satellite in history. To find out more about TJ3Sat, how you can view the launch, and how you can help TJ make history, come to the TJ3Sat info session Monday 11/18 during 8th period. For more information, visit .
The TJ Writing Center is now open during JLC in Trailer 35. Stop by in order to work with a tutor in order to receive feedback on your writing!
Come to TJ Runway this Wednesday B block and discover the role of technology (namely 3D printing) in the fashion industry and its influence on the beginning of a fashion revolution. After a brief presentation, we will be watching an Iris Van Herpen Haute Couture Fashion Show. Iris Van Herpen is a Dutch designer, and is one of the first to experiment with and incorporate 3D printing into her fashion, and to have an entire fashion show featuring only 3D printed garments. Also, in celebration of Halloween, there will be candy. Our design competition will also continue as usual! Please email any questions to . Hope to see you there!
Hello art, fashion, and tech enthusiasts! Looking for a fun outlet to express your creativity? Love art, fashion, and technology? Come to TJ Runway Wednesdays B blocks and be a designer, model, or help out with the business/technological aspects of our end-of-the-year runway showcase, no past experience necessary. Along with our yearlong design challenge, we will be conducting weekly design challenges as well complete with prizes. Add our calendar by entering <input value="sedkr6msq7jgao9idg7m9mkid4@group.calendar.google.com" style="background:transparent;border:0;font-size:12px;width:340px" onclick="select()"> into the 'Add Calendars' tab on Google Calendar to keep track of each weekly challenge so you can decide which ones interest you. Feel free to email any questions directly to . Hope to see you there, and there will be food.
Dear Students, Based on your feedback and thoughtful ideas regarding ways in which to improve the TJ environment, the following items have been approved by the administration for change: Interior Design: The Mural Club has been invited to participate in generating ideas on how to best enhance the building. All students are invited to become involved in making the school a more beautiful place. Teachers are also encouraged to hang their students work throughout the building. Outdoor classes: Many teachers take advantage of this as their lessons and the weather permits. However, we will communicate to all teachers that this opportunity exists and invite them to use this option. Applauding student effort: Post cards, designed by the Arts Honor Society, will be distributed to teachers so that they can mail them home to recognize students' outstanding individual effort in all areas including character, academics, athletics, and leadership. If, however, if you are interested in submitting a design for the card please contact Mr. DeRose by November 1. One Question Grant: You are all invited to submit a One Question Grant Proposal. Please go to the TJ Website, click on "Student Life", then click on One Question Grant, then download the One Question Grant Application. Sincerely, Mrs. Lewis
 Modeled after the hit Emmy nominated TV show "Project Runway", TJ Runway is the perfect club for any fashion enthusiast. Love design? You can learn to design and create clothing just like your favorite designers and brands; you can even compete in a competition similar to the TV show Project Runway. Love photography? You can create and edit a fashion photography portfolio to be showcased at our fashion show at the end of the year. Love being a leader? You could join this club to develop leadership and planning experience. Interested in modeling? TJ Runway will most definitely need models for the end of the year fashion showcase. Or maybe you could just use this activity as creative time-- a break from the normal school day. Whatever the reason, TJ Runway is a welcoming environment for beginner and advanced designers alike. All you need to do is bring your enthusiasm for creativity and your personal sense of fashion. The interest meeting is this Wednesday the 25th during B-block. Come with your friends to learn more about the club and enjoy some great food! We hope to see you there, and if you have any questions, please feel free to email us at .
<span style="font-size:10.0pt;font-family:" arial','sans-serif';color:black'="">Congratulations on another great </span><span style="font-size:10.0pt;font-family:" arial','sans-serif''="">school year! As we prepare for the next school year, please make sure you refer to the following website for assignments that should be completed prior to the start of next school year: </span> <span style="font-size:10.0pt;font-family:" arial','sans-serif''=""><span class="apple-converted-space"><span style="background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> to begin thinking about the 2013-2014 One Question selected by the TJ students and teachers, “How can we maintain a passion for learning in a school system where a pronounced emphasis on achieving good grades has a tendency to reduce genuine interest</span></span></span><span class="apple-converted-space"><span style="font-size:10.0pt;font-family: " arial','sans-serif';background:white'=""> in gaining a deeper understanding of subject material?”</span></span> <span style="font-size:10.0pt;font-family:" arial','sans-serif''="">Contact information for each assignment is posted to the website.&nbsp; </span>
Do you want to learn how Smart Grids work? Are you interested in improving America's energy security? Then visit and sign our petition to get Congress to support our cause!
Do you want to know how to improve your study habits and possible achieve more personal academic success? Or do you want to open your mind to skills that may serve you well in the future?&nbsp;for us to receive feedback. Thanks!
Thank You for all your support and contributions to TJ Dreams! We have posted responses all around the school. Please take a few seconds to respond to the Google Forms survey as well. Thank You again!