//TJ Crushes Posts
//----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"He's so smart, handsome and sporty. Every time i see him in the hallway i just want him to be mine. But sadly i can never get near him every time i get near him my heart just stops beating and i forget how to breath. I mean who wouldnt he has like the biggest biceps in the world not to mention his oscar award winning face and his abs of steel. I just want to be with him and his future hollywood career. PLZ NOTICE ME."
"I'm tryna scheme on this girl but she just wants to be friends. How does one escape the friend zone?"
"Ruyan is just the cutest person ever colonthree emoticon and i love his voice and demeanor."
"What should I do if I have a crush on myself? This is not a troll question."
"theres this guy i really like but he's known to lead people on maybe because hes just too nice. and i think its kinda obvious i like him but idk if hes really just clueless or if hes just a player. how do i find out if he really does have an interest in me?"
"Oh my gosh this girl. super cute. sucks that she has such a great girlfriend. but like WOW ammirite ladiez."
"She's amazing, nice, beautiful, friendly, and is there if I need someone to talk to. She's caring, wonderful, and great at dancing. She makes my heart race and always puts a smile on my face. Anna Xu is perfect in every way possible. heart emoticon"
"Ahad Rizvi is actually the best. Hes so awkward and it's adorable. His hair is always on point too. I wish I had more classes with him frown emoticon"
"Ever since I came to TJ last year, I've been feeling like something was missing. I don't have any real friends here, the kind that you actively look forward to seeing or the kind that you text simply because you genuinely want to. I don't live in fairfax, so I've lost touch with people that I had that kind of friendship with. Reconnecting with them is almost impossible because TJ takes up all of my time (commute struggles are real). you'll never see me being invited to the birthday parties of the people that I even hang out with regularly. Its starting to get a little depressing. "
""
"He's so sweet and funny and just amazing in general... I'm really glad that I met him because now he's literally the reason I wake up smiling. I can't believe he's not tired yet because he keeps running through my head. When we text, my heart beats insanely fast, and I always find myself rereading our texts... I hope something will happen in the future♥"
"how do you get your ex boyfriend back?"
"The best day ever: when the people who wrote each TJ Crush is revealed."
"Anna is so cute but idk if she's into girls...."
"I can't stop thinking about her"
"I HAVE A CRUSH ON ALL OF THE SENIORS IN TJMC. THEY HAVE ALL WORKED SUPER HARD, AND MADE OUR MARCHING BAND SHOW AMAZING!! WE WILL MISS YOU GUYS SO MUCH NEXT YEAR AND WE LOVE YOU GUYS heart emoticon"
"its taken me three years at a STEM school to realize that i want nothing to do with stem for the rest of my life... whatever. "
"I'm pretty sure he doesn't know I exist. But I always see him walk by and everytime I pass him we make slight eye contact but I always look away. I don't know how to approach im without being super awkward because he knows my sibling and I'd hate to humiliate myself especially if he isn't interested in getting to know me. He has a really cute smile and I really want to get to know him ): anyways, just had to get it out though lol"
"FMD me anytime"
"I am really interested in this girl in my class and I want to get to know her. Any tips on how to start?"
"hey, do you come here often?"
"Squeeeeeeeeeeze"
"When my friends first found out who I liked, they immediately asked, "Do you think he's hot?"
"hot" was just some sort of inside joke. But as my life progressed, I realized that I apparently was not experiencing all aspects of a crush: although I certainly thought my crush was handsome, I did not think of him as hot, sexy, or anything of the sort. When I told this to my friends, they responded with, "You don't actually like him, then."
"crushes"
"Hi, intruder here. I don't go to TJ but I think what you're doing is simply beautiful. Thank you."
"I have a crush on Victoria Yang, and have been for almost 4 years now. I wish we could be like Danny and Mindy, but I can't work up the courage to tell her how I feel."
"Sajni is literally the most beautiful and hottest person I have ever seen! I don’t have classes with her, and I only see her in the hallways once a day. (where I find her ALWAYS talking which is extremely cute). I need to think of ways to talk to her! frown emoticon Does anyone know how? They say one day dreams come true and my dream will always be with Sajni."
"i wanna try out for basketball this winter, and i definitely think i can make JV and possibly varsity, but doesn't varsity not practice till 6 on weekdays? Freshman and JV practice right after school so its ok but for varsity, what do you do? i live like an hour away so i can't just go home. Does anyone who's been on varsity basketball tell me how they handled school work??"
"What should I do if my crush was slow dancing with someone else at hoco?"
"I got to know her a little more during hoco but its still pretty awkward between us. We have no classes, 8th periods, or even lunch but I really like her and I have no idea if she likes me. Help on what to do - I want to talk to her but there are rarely any opportunities... frown emoticon"
"He is pretty funny, and his writing is so good! We are good friends but I don't think he knows how much I like him, but I do think he looks much better with the bleached hair. So cute xD "
"Oh man. I've never really had the courage to tell him how I feel, especially since he has that tough-guy personality going on. But I love the simplest things he does, whether it be just posting webassign tips or checking what time it is when I ask. 噢，我多么希望我可以给你最天上的乐趣，你可以想像。My heart is broken for you, just like that TV."
"Damn. Just damn. Like a ginger t-swift, she is the rock star of my world. Whenever I see her, she lights up my day. I've crushed on her so hard, my friends teased me about it for so long, but I never have had the confidence to say how I really feel. Well I guess now I do. But its anonymously, so it's not quite the same. whatever. I'd be lucky if she noticed me even half as much as I notice her."
"He was in my IBET last year and he's really cute. But I think he likes someone else so I probably don't have a chance ):"
"I'm falling for this guy hard. He always knows how to make me laugh. He's adorable. His smile and the way he blushes make my heart beat faster. The only problem is I think he might be gay. So he can never be mine "
"I don't understand why people date in hs. Like what does that actually involve? I feel like a lot of people dont do it for the right reasons. Like why don't people just focus on getting to know each other better and being friends."
"Shivam Kollur ' s breath turns me on"
"I finally don't have a crush on any girl at TJ anymore! Since none of the others worked out in any imaginable way, I'm looking forward to a pain-free year. "
"I wish I was Adenine, so I could be paired with U"
"Think I'm 99% sure who GMAC is and who the crush is also some of his writing is not original. Like the content he writes not his format that's all original and random. He copies from a rock artist who died only 3 years ago. Interesting because if their lives are any similar then this is bad news. Jeez rough life. No need to call him out but GMAC didn't have too many original things. If I am right, I would like to talk to them. Tell him it's impossible and they know why. frown emoticon Sorry GMAC! Still love ya!"
"Thing 1 and Thing 2 make me go crazy! 👅👅👅👅 Their skills are so hot and the way they touch balls like basketballs and football are just like O M G. The problem is they are always together 😥. Idk if they have something but I really would like either of them. however I may also go for Juan, the Juan and only and the only juanderful Mexican that I juant!"
"I always get them confused but they are awesome! "
"Meggy B is one of the hottest girls at TJ. I wish she could be mine forever. Her face is so so pretty it reminds me of a dog. She also is a VERY skillful dancer. Once when she danced, she gave me chills of joy down my back."
"im willing to bet cs is a tumblr user"
"Welllllll"
"Vivian is the best person ever and I'm sad that we haven't really talked much after school ended."
"Rak is love, Rak is life. She's so cute and I've heard she's a great girlfriend. "
"What happened to all the messages that got sent right before the page got deleted?"
"Not so much a crush as WE NEED A DEFINITIVE LOST OF SINGLE PEIPLE AND ORIENTATION obviously if someone doesn't want to be on it for whatever reason, but SINGLE AND READY TO MINGLE PEOPLE, COME FORTH"
"Should I tell them I like them now before school starts? Or after school starts? Is it better to give time to get over it (if i get rejected) before school starts, or is it better to wait until I see them in person and gauge whether they might like me and tell them how I feel...."
"oh man oh man she's a little cold to the people she doesn't know, but once you get to know her she's amazing. She's sassy and witty and fun to mess around with and she acts like she doesn't have feelings which is cute within itself. She laughs endlessly at the dumbest things, which makes me want to laugh too, and is hilarious to watch. I don't really talk to her much but I did because she seems like such an awesome person and tbh those soccer legs dang. I'd try messaging her just to get to know her but I think she'll just be cold to me and it won't get anywhere so idrk what to do i'm just gonna leave this here for her to read. Throwing this out there if she's interested!!!"
"I love graham gillman, nathan stroh, aditya sarkar, jacques brown, and nathan chen!!! I thought I submitted my TJcrushes for all of them a few weeks ago but it seems like I didn't.."
"I liked this really great person who would help people out with relationships. But I only knew the person online and unfortunately their Facebook profile got deleted and there's no way to contact them in real life unsure emoticon "
"Till this day, one of the best texts I've ever gotten from a boy is a "I love you too." in the middle of the afternoon. "
"I might be in love with her forever. It will never happen, and I have tried so hard to get over her. But part of me knows she is the one."
"How can I tell my crush I like them? I am hanging out with them soon."
"I like you"
"CAN I PLEASE BE THE FIRST ON THE NEW PAGE? heart emoticon heart emoticon heart emoticon "
"Thomas"