"what exactly is fps and is it too late to sign up?"
"fuzzy"
"Tamun is 100% the cutest girl at TJ and she's so friendly and awesome but I don't have the balls to just tell her how seeing her smile brightens my whole world, or how she's just so radiant and perfect... frown emoticon"
"it's currently 2:23 in the morning and all i can think about is how fucking badly i want her in my arms. "
"you have a list of all submissions right? can you tell me the date of the earliest submission? jw how long ago this started because it's a big thing rn"
"I feel like fluorine in a school full of helium. So reactive and ready to bond, but everyone else seems inert..."
"What if i would like to go to sadie's with someone not at tj... but i'm a guy unsure emoticon"
"peek under your clothes"
"He lives by the quote "Bio is love, bio is life". He writes poems that are legit. He doesn't actually have abs but says he does. I don't actually have a crush on him but someone out there does, so get bait tongue emoticon! "
"crush - Thomas J Crushes is actually super helpful/managed wonderfully/very accessible/awesome"
"Thank you for doing what you are doing! Keep up the good work!"
"Not a crush, but when is the Sadies dance and are girls allowed to ask guys from other schools?"
"How do relationships usually work? I always thought it was pretty rare for two people to fall in love with each other at the same time. So is it that one person likes the other and then the other comes to like them, or does there have to be mutual crushes before it starts?"
"What happens to this page after you graduate TJ?"
"To scared to ask. frown emoticon "
"I wish I wasn't in love with the idea of love."
"Smarts, beauty, personality...she's got it all"
"I admire how intelligent, friendly, and hard working Joyce Liu is. Keep it up. smile emoticon"
"Anhthu Cung: funny, smart, and beautiful. "
"Jerry Wu is my best friend and even though he has a girlfriend, I can't help but like him"
"I love him and he hasn't spoken a word to me"
"She's so cute"
"your beauty compares to no other"
"When she smiles, it lights up the room and makes my day everyday. She's extremely athletic and smart and she gets so many guys. Kaitlin, I want you to know: if you're ever feeling down, or sad, that you are by far one of the most amazing, nice, gorgeous, smart, perfect girls I have ever met and I hope we become way closer heart emoticon heart emoticon "
"Gets so many guys"
"someone please date me i'll cook for you and be honest when you ask if your outfit is ugly and im short/pocket-sized and also very good at cuddling thx"
"are guys allowed to ask girls to sadies? i know it's a "girl does the asking thing" but idk..."
"not a crush: are you allowed to ask other grades to sadies?"
"loser,"
"Please use this M&M for breeding purposes."
"grant money."
"Hello"?"
"How do you even begin an internship search? I'm getting kind of worried and wanted to know if anyone who had internship experience knew where to start..."
"Not a crush: We broke up a few weeks ago. I regret the way I handled the breakup because I recently realized I still have feelings for this girl. But I've messed up any chance of reconciliation."
"Is it weird to like someone that is in a lower grade than you? She is a very nice person but I feel like she is already taken. What should I do?"
"Not a crush... but could you possibly put timestamps on your posts? It probably won't affect things for the most part, but it might be awkward if the crush message no longer applies... I realize this is probably a lot more extra work sorry"
"guy who doesn't post crushes"
"I am your father and I own you"
"Everyone else judging her for having "something to hide"
"Grace Stewart doesn't really know we that well. I'm in her IBET and I barely have the courage to have a conversation with her. She's absolutely gorgeous and not a day goes by that I don't think about her. By the looks of it, she's way popular and so funny. I just wish I had the courage to start conversation and know more about her, but all I know is that she's on basketball. I only know a couple of her friends so maybe they could help. But she's also a little bit out of my league, but I guy can dream. After all, the reluctant warrior is the bravest warrior "
"We've never really talked, and I'd be surprised if you knew my name. But when I see you walking past me with your Gryffindor sweater, I just want to ask you one thing: Vooha, will you be the Hermione to my Harry, the Juliet to my Romeo, the Paro to my Devdas?"
"I used to think being single was fun. But when being alone becomes being lonely, it actually sucks."
"I look at every inch of your body"
"He's really smart and he's also really good at debate (not to mention he has a fan club dedicated to him). But he's probably not going to date anyone until like 5 years after college. Pls notice me Bio God. heart emoticon"
"Grace Stewart doesn't know me, but I'm in her IBET. She hot. And I wish I had a chance with her. But she seems a little intimidating and I can't really fathom the thought of us being together. It's just that, she's pretty, has a beautiful smile, and a cute laugh. She's too good for me tho so I could only hope"
"how do you know when it's love? "
"Ples teach me how to pro at Spanish. Fr what do the greats do "
"I'm a freshman boy (if that makes any difference). I feel like I don't really have any close friends. I know a lot of knew people at TJ, and it's not like we hate each other, but I just feel like there is no one I feel close to, no one I could really share what I think about with like there were in middle school. It's not their fault, I know they're all good people, but can someone give me advice on how to be more friendly/likable/whatever qualities people have that makes them have a lot of friends? Also, please don't say "be yourself" because I've tried that for the first 3+ months here and it hasn't gotten me that far. Thanks!"
"@2016classcouncil when is sadies?"
"hey girl what's up aye"
"thanks class of 2016 for destroying my self esteem"
"She is so cute, friendly, and adorable. I'm here for you, but I don't think you'll notice me..."
"Shout out to Rohan Valluri's face"
"Olivia Zhang smile emoticon heart emoticon"
"she's so funny. i never have a conversation with her in which i dont laugh uncontrollably."
"I thinK I'm in love"
"I have a crush on TJSD "
"She's such an adorable person and gets along with everyone. I wish she would notice me."
"Is it ok to have multiple crushes???"
""Well, I don't know this person, so I'm just going to comment, 'If you are having problems, please message me!!' ""
"win this argument"
"Not a crush....just a warning. Stay away from Wenxi, hes mine. I saw your poem and I was not impressed. I understand you may want a little snack on the side but hes my entree. So don't try ruining our perfect relationship."
"I come from Loudoun and I just met her. She easily imo the hottest freshman. She's looks so hot with braces 😍. I text her everyday, and I just want her to realize my feelings for her. On a scale, she would be on scale from 8 to like 10. I do debate with her, and she's so smart. She like gets into every wacfl, and she beats me in every debate we have. Bonjour ishika"
"how does one get on Humans of TJ"
"Something that really annoys me about tj is how people make fun of freshman year and joke about how easy it is. I'm a junior and I had a hard time as a freshman; it's a difficult transition from middle school to high school. Each grade has its own struggles. Even though juniors might have a larger workload, nobody's problems are insignificant. You don't have to make it a competition of who has it harder."
"You already got in to TJ, so you don't have to keep giving 110%." I understand you want to support people who get lower grades, but it is almost as if you are just saying that its fine to get a B and you don't need to work any harder."
"above average"
"She's so quiet at first, but once you get to know her she's so hilarious and outgoing. She's like an underdog, a lot of people never expected her to be good at basketball given her size, but she's proven everyone wrong."
"Having to remind yourself constantly that no one is actually into you so you don't get your hopes up and then get internally crushed to dust when you build up something to be so great in your head. "
"When you're watching some random anime and the main relationship ends up being the exact same as the one you've been going through at the time, with the characters saying the exact same things you said and feeling the exact same way you've been feeling... (Rakudai Kishi no Cavalry, specifically episode 5 lmao) Shame it turns out better than mine did kiki emoticon"
"shes kinda hot tho"
"She's straight. I'm not. I'll never tell her I love her."
"Sarah Sturken is just amazing."
"Wish we had a class together this year, but I still love talKing to you as you walk me to math. "
"What can I say, I'm being a cheesy poophead but ♥♥ you keaton grin emoticon"
"HOT FUDGEEEEE"
"Satej is pretty hot. 8)"
"I love his laugh."
"When I go to college, I want to be able to go to parties and have fun (legally), but I'm terrified of being sexually assaulted. 1 in 5 women in college are sexually assaulted after all, and that is a chance that I am never going to risk. I should not have to fear these things, but unfortunately we live in a society that blames the victim for the crime with excuses like "you shouldn't have worn ____ " instead of telling the perpetrator "this is not acceptable behavior." "
"cool, I'll just play Pokemon while I wait"
"holy shit, YES", interrupting her mid-story. She sobs more, and she starts to yell "You don't even f***ing care! YOU JUST WANT TO PLAY YOUR STUPID GAME!"
"F*** YOU"
"allahu akbar"
"(This better get its own post my dad saw my writing this and it was really awkward to explain)"
"i have a lot of mental health issues and personal problems, and they make me very sad and tired a lot of the time. they also make me really bad at asking for help, and hesitant to do so because of shame, guilt, etc. i love someone and don't want to put this burden on them, but they say they want to help me and i could really use some help. it's so hard having that choice. no matter what i do, i'm hurting both of us in different ways. every solution is another problem. what do i do?"
"so I had this boyfriend right and he's super cool and stuff but my parents found out and then some stuff went down and long story short I ended it. I really regret having done that. I really like him, and he still likes me, but there isn't any way to take it back, and even if there was, would it even be fair on him? I'm just looking for some general advice, if you can offer any. Should I just get over it, or should I try to revive the relationship?"
"I try so, so hard, but I just keep doing badly. It leaves me feeling stressed out and sad. I really don't want to drop out of TJ as I've only just started making friends and my family will be disappointed...and I'll be disappointed in myself. But everything feels so overwhelming. I'm not good at anything while other people are just whizzing through it. It used to only be bio. I could handle that, spending an extra few hours studying it. But now it's everything, and I just don't have enough time to spend an extra few hours studying everything. I don't know if I should consider dropping out. I really don't want to. But I don't know what to do. "
"freshman year for me has been really rough... first quarter it was a struggle to get A's and 2 B+s and now I'm struggling to even maintain that. I have way more B's/B+'s than I'm okay with. why are some people putting in so little effort and still are getting better grades than I am? "
"I'm sorry it took me so long to tell you I loved you. I guess it's too late now, but I'm glad I told you at some point."
"she's the tear in my heart"
"Shreya Medepalli is one of the most attractive girls in the class of 2017"
"Shreya is gorgeous and amazing and I just really like her."
"Why's it necessary for people to try and make me feel bad about myself for being Catholic?"
"all the freshmen from rocky are pretty cool"
"William Yao is hot af."
"She was the page for the Economics committee at the mock... and damn she was hot."
"there should be more videos like "One Word" on TJTV"
"Kelly Ho is such an amazing person. I really wish she was at TJ..."
"When your crush doesn't wanna date girls at TJ frown emoticon Sohail Mohanty"
"TI-69"
"I really need advice: how do i get over a breakup?"
"to heal a wound, you have to stop touching it."
"i overheard someone say this and it's definitely true... Anna Lulushi, your eyes are like supernovas "
"It kills me to know she's shipped with someone that's not me. "
"Anvitha is hotter than her roasts "
"I haven't talked to him much but he seems really nice and when I see him on the morning news it makes my day a little brighter. I want to talk to him more but I don't know how? he's probably taken anyway."
"Annie Wang is the love of my life, ever since 7th grade, when I saw her walk by my eyes stopped blinking. I don't even know how I will ever live without her. Thanks for always being there for me. I can't say anymore words to describe your caring and beautiful personality. XOXO"
"I honestly cannot get over how sweet he is. He never fails to make anyone smile and never even judges even total psychos like me. He has a lot of friends, but he still makes sure to pay a little attention to me every single day since I met him. And, his overall personality is perfect.I hope he has someone to treat him as well as he deserves because I doubt I could."
"Evelyn is so cute and accomplished and of course she's the only TJ girl who got into Harvard. She gets so many boys and is nice to everyone. I love you."
"friends"
"Determination. "
"i have a guy friend who i think likes me and i want to continue being good friends w him but i dont want to lead him on?"
"what's hacktj? how do you get involved?"
"How common is it to liKe someone in a different grade?Just curious. "
"I just want to thank Thomas J Crushes and its admins for existing and doing so much to help our community. Whether its posting about crushes, problems, or random funny tidbits, sometimes it really makes my day. I hate the hate you can get sometimes but you are a huge part of this fantastic community and thank you so much! heart emoticon"
"Always a people person, brings out the best in people and is always able to make everyone laugh and smile. We've only known eachother for a short time but everytime I think of the times we've had together, it makes my heart flutter. Always tells the best stories, and always knows exactly what to say to make me smile. I will always love you, Thomas J Crushes"
"I watched as I fell in love. I've liked plenty of girls, but never this strong. I started talking to you after someone took my phone and we just started having conversations from there. It started off just as friends, but slowly and slowly I fell in love. You say you did too, but I waited too long. I wish I had the balls to tell you that I loved you earlier, but I took too long. What I want is things to go back to how they were right now, just us as friends. I've given up on you, at least I certainly hope I did, and I've vowed to never fall in love again any time soon. But please I miss us just talking for fun. Don't ignore me. Please."
"I really like this guy that I'm friends with, but I feel like I'm not really "dateable," which is frustrating. I'm also pretty sure he doesn't think of me in THAT way, so I shouldn't tell him because then I'll probably ruin the relationship I already have with him. This is irritating."
"I have a huge crush on Jean and can't stop thinking about her. She draws me in when I see her and when I talk to her I feel stupid and awkward. thing is, I would tell her, but Im also a girl, and I think she would reject me because Im pretty sure she's straight. "
"Its been a whole three years, and shes been on my mind since freshman year. Her french and math skills never cease to impress me, and her high class always sends chills down my back. Sadly, I never got the courage to ask her out, and she is somewhat mean to me, no matter what I do. I wish I was just a little bit smarter so I could be with her. Joyce Tian"
"Annie Wang is the love of my life, ever since 7th grade, when I saw her walk by my eyes stopped blinking. I don't even know how I will ever live without her."
"I'm so sad that Ayan left TJ! He was the best guy ever and actually so nice. Just a reminder that you'll always be a part of our family even if you're at another school smile emoticon"
"not a crush - Ishan Lamba is such a cool person and I've seen a ton of people giving their friends shoutouts so it's my turn. Ishan is super cool and he's really nice. He has funny stories that he's always willing to share and is there when you need him. Ishan, you're the real mvp, and don't forget it!"
"I wish Joyce would notice me and my math textbook. Then she'd know that she's a 9 and I'm the 1 she needs, and together, we'd be a perfect 10. But, she's already made up her mind. "I'd rather do my homework than any of the guys at TJ" (Liu, 2015) "
"I miss Rohan Puvvada. I wish we talked more! He is so genuinely nice and super smart. I like the way he laughs and his eyelashes are THE BEST. smile emoticon"
"Ally Scholle is one of the most wonderful people at TJ. She's so kind and sweet to everyone and I love talking to her. Plus, she's really cute too."
"I didn't really know him in middle school, but ever since we got into TJ, we've gotten closer and closer. He's so helpful in compsci and spanish, he's probably bumped my grade a few points. He's smart af and handsome too. I wish I'd had the courage to ask him to hoco, but I'm getting there. ILY Ansh"
"I'd rather do my homework than any of the guys at TJ"
"rely" on that person for whatever reason, the relationship won't last long. When that reliance ends, so will your relationship. -mk"
"Alum here. I brought roses home, but my keys didn't fit."
"the MUN seniors are so awesome and helpful smile emoticon"
"He's so adorable. He could get any girl in our grade if he didn't use bad language."
"Cece Chu is so smart and beautiful. I wish she would think of me as much as I think of her..."
"Sophia wang is such a beautiful person."
"I want to know more about alexey d. heart emoticon"
"William is the best bro friend ever ;^) if i'm sousuke, be my rei"
"Neha Chinthapatla is hot. She a solid 10/10"
"Nidhi Nagireddy is so inspiring. Her roasting ability is her best quality heart emoticon"
"Ok, don't be to be upfront and dangerous, but Neha Chinthapatla is like super hot"
"Anhthu Cung is like the cutest at this school aka my favorite Asian "
"Emilio Sison is perfect heart emoticon heart emoticon "
"I'm a sophomore so I don't have much experience. A guy recently took me out on a date and I think he wants more from me. Idk if I can give him my 100%. I really like him but I don't think I'm ready for a relationship. What do I tell the guy if he asks me to date him? "
"I have this friend, and recently I noticed that he keeps looking at me, and always texts me, and tries to talk to me even though we barely see each other in the whole day. I think he likes me but I don't know for sure. I kinda like him back but I don't know what to do. "
"Um is it weird to like 3 guys? Thanks."
"New year at a new school with lots of new people and I still don't like anyone yet. Is something wrong with me?"
"How do I talk to this guy I like? I'm almost positive he likes me too, but I can't work up the guts and it seems like he can't either..."
"How do u know when to quit tj? I feel like I've passed all the signs that I should quit but I want to ensure I'll have a good future here...so how I know that I should transfer schools?"
"I've known her for three years now. I really want to ask her out, but I'm worried it's gonna ruin our friendship or make it super awkward. On the other hand I don't want to miss out on an opportunity and wait too long. More than anything I just wanna know if she likes me or not but without talking to her friends or all that crap. Any suggestions?"
"Can I join dev club in the middle of the year?"
"how do i stop procrastinating. seriously, it's ruining my life. "
"Sorry this isn't a crush: can someone explain why people at Tj always censor their Facebook posts (and the ones on TJ crushes)? Two aspects I don't understand... First, we're all high schoolers. I'm sure everyone here has heard people curse, if you're really that affected by cursing the only option for you is to be homeschooled. Everyone I've seen at TJ has a certain level of maturity, and I hope everyone can deal with a word of all things. Also, if you're worried about kids seeing it, that's the parents responsibility for letting their child have a Facebook. Second, why is cursing culturally a problem? Obviouslywords like f--- means something that we don't want kids to know about yet... But some are completely innocent."
"Aw I wish I had friends "
"I really wish I was on TJToday so I could make videos like "complementing your classmates" (as seen on BuzzFeed) or other things like that, similar to BuzzFeed videos that promote community. It would just be so much fun to see that and be in that and create that. ://// Is it even possible for that to be incorporated into TJTV? hypothetically"
"Sorry that this isn't a crush, but... I feel like I've been stuck in a rut lately. I mean, I do fine academically, and I do sports, and have a decent friend base, but nothing feels that special about my life, and everything stresses me out. Is this normal/typical hormonal feelings? I've tried relieving stress in every way possible, searching for a hobby, you name it- I just can't seem to get out of this rut. help pls"
"His name is John Cena"
"Nick is honestly the hottest guy alive. He's super nice and really brings the heat in XC and track. He wields a lot of *power* in class council too wink emoticon"
"ThanK you for going out of your way to make me smile. You could choose to ignore me and text all of your other friends; but you don't. "
"We had a thing over summer. Now he won't even talk to me."
"She's so cool, pretty and hot! I'm pretty sure she doesn't notice me. We don't have enough classes together and I don't have the courage to talk to her."
"isn't katya plotnitskaya just the most beautiful person ever?"
"It's so great to come back from break and hear your sweet voice and cute laugh smile emoticon"
"tbh Victoria I don't like know you that well but you're like my dream tj girl, you're incredibly pretty and I think you have a great sense of humor. "
"I love him too much to let him go, even though I don't think he loves me back anymore. I just wish he would get it."
"I think I'm on the verge of falling for him. But I won't let myself, because he has a girlfriend."
"I love her. She so awesome possum. Love her."
"Love can be so cruel. I like him. He likes her. She likes someone else. "
"I really like Saket and want to get to know him better. What should I do?"
"Save you like you save trees"
"to all the people who's crushes are written by other guys (Evan Shi)"
"gaaaaaaay"
"gay" as an insult, and quickly retracting it with BS statements like "never mind that's just messed up,"
"shit"
"I've been considering dropping out for a while now, although most of my friends do not support the decision and seem to demean me for wanting to do so. How does dropping out affect your chance for college? Does it really matter that much? My friend made it seem like I wouldn't get accepted anywhere good once I drop and I might as well stay. "
"go to the bathroom" its because I'm ready to cry and i don't want to do it in front of the entire class. I don't think this is depression but i don't know what to do about it. Does anyone know what my issue might be?"
"Not a crush but how why is there such a huge stigma against non profits when there are people literally buying science fair projects for like 20,000 dollars for competitions in order to boost their resume?"
"Not a lot of people came to TJ from my school so I didn't automatically have a group of friends like some other people. I've been making friends of course, like everyone says, joining clubs and sports etc., but they're all from different groups, and none of them ever invite me to join them, so when it comes time for lunch and other stuff...I'm just all by myself even though I know some people. My problem is that I make friends with people enough so that I have somebody to sit next to during class, but outside of class I have nobody to hang out with. And I'm too shy to ask any of my friends if I can join their groups. I don't feel like we're close enough yet, and probably never will be. It makes me miss middle school. "
"reading"
"everyone says just be yourself, but what if I don't like the person I am? Do I "just be myself" or change myself?"
"Not having confidence in your looks is one thing but not having any confidence in your personality either is a killer."
"What do you think about girls asking out guys. And I don't just want the "OMG that's great!" response. In particular, I want to know if any of the girls can actually see themself asking out a guy they like."
"change"
"I miss you. It's weird to miss someone you've never dated, but I do. I miss how you used to give me the best hugs (I love your hugs, they are honestly the best hugs. They are large and warm and soft) and how we used to be able to talk all the time. But when I told you I had a crush on you, I ruined it. I ruined a perfectly good friendship by falling in love, and I miss you."
"I feel really bad when I get a crush on a boy. I know I shouldn't, but society has drilled into my head that straight guys don't like it when guys stare at them and stuff. Everyone at tj is really accepting, and I feel comfortable here, but there's just something inside of me that makes me feel ashamed of my sexuality."
"Sohail Mohanty is sooo hot! OMG I wish that he would like me back, so much but he hardly ever talks to me. I try to text him but he always gives me one- liners and I get the idea he doesn't want to talk to me. I wish that he would have a more positive attitude to dating girls at TJ because he told all of my friends that he doesn't want to date anyone at TJ. "
"I don't have any classes with her anymore, and she won't see this, but I haven't had a chance to express my feelings about her. Her voice was smooth and silky. Her smile was modest and calming. She was smart and elegant, reserved but exuberant when appropriate. She was gentle and kind and seemingly in abundant supply of positivity that I can only dream of having. Seeing her happy made me happy, and not a day would pass where I didn't think of her. And seeing her tired made me tired, and I would only wish she'd get rest. And if she happened to miss school one day, I'd get carried away worrying if she was okay. Now, I only hope she's doing all right. I don't know if she remembers me, but I hope she knows there's someone out there who cares."
"not worth my time"
"Not a crush, just a shoutout to Jahnavi Prabhala for being awesome and always upbeat! The world needs more people like you smile emoticon"
"ur in college. why are ur doing this? :|"
"Stuthi Iyer is the most beautiful girl at TJ, even though she doesn't know it yet."
"Jerry Wu is hilarious and I want to get to know him better."
"Millan Welman, even though we aren't close, thank you for saying hi to me in the halls. You have no idea how much it makes my day smile emoticon"
"I'm all about that bass."
"Attractive in her own unique, adorable way."
"I'll come up with a sweet blurb later."
"She's super sweet and amazing, but I don't think she'd ever like me"
"I wish I had more classes with him!!!"
"love having crushes on straight girls :))))))"
"she's really cute , though i don't have any classes with her."
"cute and small"
"Who would love someone like me?"
"I like this girl named Yukta Chidanandan. But if I told her, probably nothing would happen. I mean she barely knows me. But I just can't help but look at her. I mean she's so beautiful. Plus, she's friendly, kind, and funny. It's such a longshot and if she ever found out who I was, she'd probably never go for someone like me. There's so much holding me back. We live a little far away from each other, we aren't close friends, it's only the beginning of freshman year, she's out of my league, if i decide to tell her, how would i say it (in person). Just so many questions. I hope she'd like me, but probably not"
"i've gone through 2 bottles of smuckers magic shell chocolate stuff (and appropriate amounts of ice cream) in a period of time so short i'm not even going to tell you. this is why crushes are awful. hey no regrets though "
"Perfection."
"How is it that the girl I love is with the one other guy with my name. I won't say who you are, but I'm quietly loving you. And I'm glad you're happy."
"taken""
"If somebody likes me, I want them to like the real me…And I don’t want them to carry it around inside. I want them to show me, so I can feel it, too. I want them to be able to do whatever they want around me."
"I really wanna get to know ben xu better! he's been so kind to me and seems like a great person overall, not to mention he's super smart and not bad looking smile emoticon"
"Jacob Munyan has kind eyes."
"Eric Sun is so smart and funny and nice and I like him so much!"
"Hot damnnnn she's perfect js"
"I know that theoretically I'm out of your league. According to all our friends, you're not that attractive. But I can't see that, because you're so hot and cute and nice and smart. But you believe it. You have really bad self-esteem, and you think you can't get a girlfriend, but you can!!! And I know you don't want to date ME because you told me, but I wish you could be mean about it. It's so hard to get over you when you're so nice to me, when you felt so bad that you didn't have a crush on me. I really like you, and you don't like me, and according to all our friends it doesn't make sense because you should be going after ME, but I can't see that. Even though I wish you'd like me back, you should ask out the girl you like because I just want you to be happy. "
"Any well-known artists in the freshman pool???? "
"I like this guy and I think he likes me too but I don't really want to be in a relationship. I am afraid he will take it the wrong way if he makes a move and I turn him down. What should I do? "
"We mostly talk over Facebook, but lately I've seen him hanging out with my friends more and seeing him a lot more in person. However, he never really tries to start a conversation with me and just kinda looks at me. How do I make it less awkward? Whenever I try talking to him, he gets kinda quiet"
"Sorry this isn't a crush, but is it possible to do a sport if you didn't do it freshman year?"
"To the teachers who assigned large homework assignments over Thanksgiving break but to get by the student advocacy make it officially due the second day back... Please stop. Maybe just give us one break stress free? It's impossible to do it Monday night I know, that's why you recommend we do it over the break. Please just one break! "
"Like if you like someone but they probably won't like you back."
"I'm sorry this isn't a crush post. There's just a problem that's been bothering me lately and it's about feminism. Most people will mock it and laugh at it, saying feminism has become a joke and it's equated to man-hating. I want to say I am a feminist, but am too scared to state so in fear of many people automatically calling me a man hater or a "dumb complaining lazy bit**". I am none of those things and it hurts immensely when I am judged for the title of my beliefs rather than my actual opinions. The poison that is spouted towards feminism has reached a point to where I myself have looked at feminists and thought they were ridiculous, when I shouldn't have. I hated the word for what it has become because of the so many people who claimed they were feminists but in actuality would spout acidic words towards men, constantly blaming every man for their mistakes. Society had been pushing this image in my mind where they were constantly telling me that feminism was bad and that it was wrong to believe in it. I've come to learn embracing being a feminist, and in no shape or form do I hate men or believe that women are superior. I believe we are all equal. But whenever I state that I am a feminist, people do not listen to my beliefs but rather judge me. When I say I believe in equality they scoff and say I don't believe in equality and that I'm nothing but just another silly girl who doesn't know what I'm talking about. There are females and males (and others) who base feminists on the examples who have man hated and said very gender discriminatory things. But basing the whole community of feminists on a few is wrong, just like how some radical people will blame the entire male community for being rapists. It's not true, at all. But I couldn't get this idea into people's minds because they wouldn't believe the words of a high school girl, much less one who says she's a feminist. I've become so scared of using the sentence, "I am a feminist" because it is linked to such negative emotions and thoughts. I can't read a single Facebook post about feminism without reading the comments which contain sexist slurs and horrible language. I hope that in the future I won't have to feel this way, and that men and women(and others) can stop hating each other but rather work together to create a better community for all people. Maybe that day I won't have to feel too scared of stating my beliefs and won't have to worry about having sexist slurs shouted at my face. Just maybe. "
"You are beautiful. The very definition of it. Your short black hair, your perfectly toned face. Could it really be that you are perfect? I had a dream of us holding hands miles from here, breaking free of this world, loving truly, the span of a moment, pure love unleashed. And As we stare into the bright light of the moon and time passes without remorse, I know that this dream has come true. We slowly go to sleep as each of us holds hands. I wake first the next morning, noticing your head on my left shoulder and how your smooth, black hair flows like a river over my arm. You sleep so fair, so quiet. With every breath you take I notice more and more that yes, you are the one. I caress the locks of your hair ever so gently. Smooth like silk. You suddenly awake, and smile to see that I am the first thing you see. We talk about things that don't matter, but I really could care less. You are the best I will ever have and I think, no, I KNOW that I am the luckiest woman in the world. Oh Matt, a man so fair. Your imperfections are perfect. Your voice is melodic, like that of an angel. Your beautiful eyes ever so entrancing, your skin as smooth as that of a newborn's. We are trapped on this island, but neither of us could really care. We are happy, and that is all that really matters. As I stare out into the ocean waves, I imagine our future. Bright, like the sun. We are the perfect couple, and both of us know it. We love each-other unconditionally, and our love is everlasting like the very universe we inhabit. We are never sad, always happy. We never argue, only love. You wish to bear children, but I cannot bring myself to think of polluting something that is so innocent. This does not stop me however, of thinking of how those beautiful beings would be. Three boys, all with the eyes of their mother and the nose of their father. They would be mischievous but we would love them all equally and unconditionally. I would teach them how to fish, and hunt, you would teach them how to love. We would name them; John, Ben, and Evan, and they would all grow to be strong and intelligent. As you and I grew older Matt, our love would never wane. It would be as strong if not stronger than the day we both met. With every kiss, every embrace, our love would grow one hundred times stronger than before, and it would further strengthen our already unbreakable bond. I sometimes ask myself if such a vast amount of love could make a human immortal? I certainly hope so, living eternally alongside you would be everything I would ever need. If I could make a wish right now it wouldn't even be for you to fall in love with me, but for me to get the opportunity to meet you. That alone would make my life already one that is fullfilled...."
"how much carpel tunnel did Evan Shi get from writing this shit"
"she is"
"so i met this girl and im in love, and that's all the words i have i guess, but it doesn't feel like enough, so just, in your head, please just imagine if the stars made a soft shiny noise when you looked at them, what that would sound like, and if that sound was a feeling, that feeling is what her eyes look like. look as in look the action verb. this was probably confusing to read i'm sorry. (oh my gosh she is cute)"
"So, where do I start. I have been in love (or the closest thing to love) with her since freshmen year. I'm a senior now. She is so smart, accomplished, beautiful, literally one of the nicest people I know, and she always makes me feel better. She has such a unique personality with flairs of romance, reality, and quirkiness. Her smile is so pretty and makes me smile too. I love making her laugh. I am so unlucky though, she is in love with someone else and has been for a while. She won't admit it to anyone but, I know its true. Hats off to you man. "
"Alice Fontaine is so pretty, nice, and wonderful. She always has a smile on her face and the way she puts her hair makes me go crazy. I have three classes with her and literally can't take my eyes off of her. I know that she is out of my league, but that won't scare me away. "
"she's the most beautiful girl I know. I've had crushes before, but never like the one i had for her. i know she's too good for me, and I will never have a chance frown emoticon"
"idk he's looks like an anime character and although he gets kinda snappy sometimes, he's really funny and sarcastic and omg i swear to god he is going to go out and save princesses but he eats his chinese food with a fork (why!) but whatever lmao ily leeyung"
"Somebody help me ask Ansh Gandhi out"
"Tarun Kamath is honestly one of the all-around best people I have met in my time at TJ. Even though he's mind-blowingly smart and hard-working, he presents himself in such a modest way that he's basically friends with everyone. He's such a trustworthy, kind, and optimistic person. I see the ideal TJ dream in him and his amazing personality."
"Even though sometimes I can't see you in pictures, I wish you would see how much I love you. Black don't crack, you're so cool, you make me go "quack". heart emoticon Mishka Philizaire "
"Complete squish on Jade Traiger. She's just always so friendly. I feel like I could talk with her for hours if I had the chance. You're awesome Jade! She doesn't have a Facebook, but I trust someone'll tell her."
"So I met him this year and I think that he is the most beautiful and charming guy ever. Every day his hair is on point and I just wish that he would notice me more. In the hallways I know he sees me and I look away trying to hide my embarrassment. He's the most perfect guy ever and I wish he would start liking me..... "
"MARIAM KHAN IS KHANTASTIC. Like a khan-iferous tree, i want her all-year round. She would win any khan-test. She must be a khan-man who stole my heart. She has me so khanfused, with her khanfidence and its hard to have a khanversation with her. but i hope this khanfession makes her realize that her love is khantagious."
"I have a mchugo crush on james mchugo. he's so funny and he always tries to talk to me in the hallways. but I know he'll never like me back frown emoticon"
"Will Baxley has the most gorgeous eyes, and he is so clever and kind. I hope he realizes how amazing he is. heart emoticon"
"I have a huge platonic crush on Sydney Harrington."
"I LOAVEEE YOUUU ANNIEEEE SARANGHAEEEEEE HEHEHEHEHEHHE"
"He's so tall and fast and amazing at programming and saxophone! I wanna be just like him when I grow up!"
"signed"
"does anyone at TJ actually play league"
"unhealthy"
"diagnosis"
"phase"
"way"
"girl crush"
"go to hell" or "you deserve to die"
"crush"
"Class of 2016 in general is very attractive heart emoticon "
"fk u brain. why did u have to pick the one girl ill never get"
"He's sooooo cute!"
"im so gay and she is too, why cant i work up the guts and ask her to be my boo"
"Chrissy Blake is very beautiful and a wonderful person to be around. I'm glad there are people like her at Tj, her smile makes my day."
"Rilkki is alrite"
"Emma Zhang is so cute! I wish she would talk to me more. "
"Irene is so pretty and I love her voice!! "
"...so adorable, kind, and innocent. I wish I could be like him."
"no etiquette" and "no social skills" and "no manners" because she grew up in china (really? how much more ignorant can you get?) but look at you shitting all over her behind her back. You obviously have none of them yourself. Honestly, I give less than zero f---s about how great you think you are, how many guys you attract... So please stop announcing your entire life to the bus, because nobody cares. I want to sleep. Please. Thanks."
"I just wanted to tell all of you how amazing Neel is. He is so hilarious with all his sassy remarks and just amazing in general, I could write essays and essays about how cool he is, but I don't want to fill up your whole feed. He gives really nice hugs and he is always just super fantastic. I don't think he knows how much he has changed my life for the better and I just really really want him to know that because sometimes it seems like he doesn't realize how amazing he is. Please Neel stay as awesome as you are right now because I love you, all of TJ loves you. I wish I could tell you this in person ://////."
"PPanda is my favorite youtuber! This student goes to TJ and works very hard on his videos. He deserves more recognition, but I know he's too shy to promote himself so it would be really cool if people would check out his videos so they can enjoy them as much as I do. https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1VC6eABnofaSbC3GLFca4A/ "
"not a crush but props to the girl that got a 2400 on the sat"
"Please tell me that i'm not the only sophomore who doesn't have a crew yet."
"This is related to a previous post about the person always pulling people aside in the middle of a conversation. In the middle of our huge Facebook group chats, there's always this one person who says "pm" and it sort of ruins the conversation and also makes other people feel badly."
"Damn, Mr. Brightside is a really good song. Lemme listen to it just one more time."
"She's so pretty and smart and I love her so much omg"
"You know who you are: liking two girls at the same time and leading one on isn't cool even if she doesn't want to date "
"James is so darn attractive but he won't notice me frown emoticon frown emoticon frown emoticon "
"best" friend just takes advantage of me. He never talks to me and calls me a "fag" in public. My other "friend"
"fun-sized", smart junior I know. MUN is so much fun because of her. She always makes my day."
"It's been a while now...every day I see you, our eyes meet, then we look away. I used to convince myself that I don't actually like you, but when I see you with a group of other girls I get so jealous. I know you look at me, you notice me too, the same way I do to you. I know we both at least have some feelings for each other, but why don't either of us ever say anything? "
"She's so beautiful and kind. Her laugh makes me happy. Just seeing her smile makes me smile, and her eyes are so attractive that I find it difficult to pay attention to anything else. But most importantly, she knows how to brighten my day, no matter what. "
"Maybe one day I'll be brave enough to tag him here without caring what people say to me. "
"She is cute and so is her obsession with Kpop. She's a bit taller than I am which doesn't make me too happy (srry) but the way she smiles and waves hi is enough to get me through an entire week. Plz notice me (even though these are all p much anonymous)!"
"Ever since I came to TJ, I feel like I like more guys based on their personalities rather than their looks. Sure, there are some really cute guys but I love getting to know everyone's passions and their character. I couldn't really say much about TJ giving me anything else, but thank you TJ for making me see that inner beauty is much more amazing and interesting than outer beauty. heart emoticon"
"I seriously hate the way students think in the school. It's like a shark tank, everyone wants to get the good grades. Everyone wants to be the best, get into great colleges, earn the better grade. The community is just so toxic, it's like I'm being surrounded by a bunch of FAKE people who pretend to be nice but behind your back they don't care about you. They only care about themselves. Seriously, I've stopped trusting ANYONE at TJ and if people are going to be selfish then why should I help others? Like if you don't want to aid someone in understanding something, don't just ignore them... At least say you are busy. Some people are LEFT in the dirt while those who only care about themselves succeed. "
"i remember, he laughed today, not like a suave masculine laugh, but just this comical outburst of happiness that sounded like a hyena. i know how weird this sounds to say, but it was the most beautiful thing i've heard in a long time, maybe ever? i've never been so happy to see someone happy, i guess. i would pick his dolphin laugh over any music."
"Don't worry,"
"im usually a pretty outgoing guy (i think?) but around her, im just so shy. its gotten to the point where im pretty sure she thinks im ignoring her. i cant stop thinking about her, and she thinks i hate her :(("
"Recently I was friend zoned by my crush, but catch this, she said she returned my feelings and then friend zoned me later. And now she's going around telling her friends the entire story as if she was bragging... How should I take it."
"feely"
"I really like this guy...but he's one grade above me and completely oblivious to any signals I give him, but I know he likes me, and at the same time I don't even know if it's worth dating someone. He's ridiculously smart and fit but if we even hypothetically start dating in the near future, it's going to be cut short bc he's going off to college soon, and dating someone older is just inconvenient because we have no classes together, no common friends, and if I spend time with them then that's less time for my friends and I just don't even know what to do. Sorry about the rambling--it's just I really like him and we have so many common interests and I can see a future with him as opposed to every other guy I've ever met and I don't know what to do. Please help!!!!"
"what to do when falling for a f---boy?"
"How is it possible to be so attracted to someone you've never even spoken to?"
"What do I do if I'm a girl and I kinda developed a crush on a friend that's a girl?"
"IT WILL GET BETTER" is not just an empty, cliche promise. I've actually experienced it, so I know it works. It will happen. No matter who you are, things will get better and you will be a stronger person when you recover. Keep persevering, because that day will come. Please be there to see it."
"He has mild depression and I am afraid of breaking up."
"Do you ever have a fear that you're actually a strong 2 with a good filter and lighting but no one's telling you out of pity"
"Everyone is so fake. Using others for information. "
"She can jump and tumble cuz she's a cheerleader but she can't save me from falling for her heart emoticon notice me sin(pi)"
"Harriet is the cutest person ever"
"She is cute but I don't really talk to her"
"She's so cute, but I'm pretty sure she's not into relationships or guys in general."
"Stella is very nice and cute!"
"Sohail Mohanty is so cute! He is so funny and he is like the easiest guy to talk to. He is confident and he can always cheer me up. I think he is too popular for me because he is the quarterback of the football team and I am jst a random girl. PLZ NOTICE ME SOHAIL!!!"
"John Cena"
"He's sending me such mixed signals... One minute I think he likes me and the next he doesn't "
"He's in my IBET and he's really sweet and funny:) i don't think he notices me though:( "
"Yukta Chidanandan"
"js Laura Gersony is one of the hottest freshmen at TJ "
"She has nice blonde hair and a beautiful smile smile emoticon but she's already taken </3"
"Zane Givans is a moon king"
"When all the seniors make their twitter's private because of college apps lmao"
"Funny. Motivated. Dazzling. heart emoticon the junior guys"
"Short girls are the cutest <333"
"she's already taken"
"How do you ask people questions? I feel like I have to be formal when asking upperclassmen for advice on things like LD debate bc otherwise they will think I am stupid, but I really just want to be able to comfortably spam them with questions(stupid or not) bc I have no idea what I am doing. Like there's only one upperclassmen who I feel I can do that with but I can't remember I got to that point..IDK does anyone else feel like this?? Please give me some advice..."
"I went to homecoming with this guy and after he told me that he liked me and I kind of felt the same way but I'm not allowed to date so I told him that we could go out as friends and in groups and stuff but he got super pissy afterwards but I thought we kind of sorted all of this stuff out but today I heard that he likes another girl. I know that it's just a rumor and it's probably not true, but should I confront him about it? He's a pretty straight up guy, and all of my friends are telling me that I shouldn't "date" him because of the way he's been acting and his posts on Facebook and stuff are really rude, but I really like him and don't know what to do help"
"HOW DO YOU DEVELOP RELATIONSHIPS WITH UPPERCLASSMEN? I just find it very hard to get up the nerve. Like IDK how to describe it but I feel like there's a barrier, like when I would be comfortable embarrassing myself in front of someone in my grade with stupid questions but it feels different with people in other grades??! Like i want to be able to connect with people and ask them for help like we are friends idek..."
"are there fruniors this year?"
"is it bad that i have to study for design and tech tests"
"Is it possible to date someone from another school, that isn't your base school? What happens when you run out of "getting to know them", you can't really talk about mutual friends or anything. Is it feasible?"
"easy a"
"Before I met him everything seemed gray, monochrome, a disgusting world that no one would want to live in. My grades were fine and I wasn't getting into too much trouble but I felt lonely and empty inside. Everyday was a harrowing routine and I was just viewing life as the waiting before we all eventually die. But I guess even someone as shitty as me can find someone who they love, right? When I first saw him I thought he was obnoxious- that boy who would always speak up in class and fool around to get told off by the teacher. The event that sparked our friendship wasn't anything extraordinary, I simply got a bad grade on a test and my parents yelled at me like they always do. For no particular reason, I found that the endless screaming affected me more this time- and so I was grieving for the whole next day. No one comforted me, no one noticed me, I was invisible. Until he said two simple words- "What's wrong?"
"This probably sounds really thirsty but looking at these crushes sometimes makes me sad when I see a lot of my friends getting them but no one ever writes one of them for me. I know I'm not nearly attractive enough to get one but if you have a crush or even someone you care about but not in that way, don't hesitate to send them a TJCrush, you might make their day smile emoticon"
"I still don't like anyone even though school started 2 months ago, starting to miss the feeling that comes with having a crush but it's not like I can force myself to start liking someone"
"She tries to end our conversations as quickly as possible, rarely elaborating or responding with questions. However, every time she sees me, she'll approach and her body language gives me contradicting signals."
"I told her I liked her and she said that she likes me as well, but I haven't done very much afterwards. (excuses: I don't know her group of friends, I am afraid of ruining what might be there by doing something she'll find awkward, I don't even really know how to progress, etc.) I never make her laugh and she doesn't seem to enjoy herself when she's around me. All of our conversations are pretty awkward, especially now. I'm questioning her response to my confession as there are other guys that she laughs with and treat her better, making me the most unqualified guy out there."
"I missed my chance to get her. She's so pretty and beautiful, in everything from how she dances so gracefully to just the way she walks. Now she's dating one of my best friends. Great for him. Not so great for me. But I had my chances..."
"Cynthia Zhang is so cute omg. I love how she is so nice to everyone and although she can be a bit shy sometimes, she's one of the coolest people I know. heart emoticon "
"Jennifer Liu is actually the cutest girl in 2019 <3333 She is so nice and talented and her smile brightens my day grin emoticon But sadly I like never see her outside of class… "
"Oh man so I met this cute girl who I love the most and is my bae. Even though I talk a lot about other women, I hope she knows she's the one that means the most to me♥ I LOVE YOU JENNY!"
"I think I am in love with Manish Adhikari. His professional play in League of Legends is so impressive to me and I do not think I can find a greater attractive guy. heart emoticon heart emoticon heart emoticon"
"I just met her this year, but I'm pretty sure I like her. She's a pretty, awesome person, and I want to get to know her a lot better. I can't help but think about her constantly. I'm sure she just views me as some guy, though."
"Throughout my childhood, I grew up reading fairy tales. And in every fairy tale, there was always a happy ending. But, is there really a happy ever after in real life? I wasn't a firm believer of this until I met him, Michael Ma. He's smart, super cute, and he's amazing at wushu. He's always smiling and I admit, sometimes I want that smile to be for me. So... I hope in this fairy tale, he will be the prince to my princess."
"Not a crush, but what is the move on managing a boy's sport as a girl? A lot of people are telling me that its not really a good idea because I'm a girl and theyre boys etc but I feel like it would be really fun and idk what to do"
"I have a D+ in math. I don't know what to do. I've tried doing all the questions from the textbook, studying for hours every day, and going to my teacher during lunch. But when I have to take a test, I don't remember anything. I'm really worried, because it's the first quarter, and it's only going to get harder from here."
"Sorry this isn't a crush, but how hard is neurobio?"
"for good gpa" and "bad" gpa "
"Don't worry about your grades so much! They don't define you!"
"A friend of mine was complaining about how the posts about self harm and depression were annoying to see on his dash and essentially conveying that he thought it wrong for TJ crushes to be posting them. This is precisely the issue at TJ. Not many people really want to be aware of these issues around them and every time they are brought up, they just get pushed aside. This may be because they don't experience depression themselves and are blind to the fact that these posts help others realize that they aren't fighting the depression battle alone. To me, this is because no schools really bring attention to self harm and society makes it seem that anyone with depression is "too weak to handle their problems." A lot of people don't understand how to help their friends due to a lack of education in this matter. "
"Don't worry about your grades so much! They don't define you!"
"guys"
"Don't worry about your grades so much! They don't define you!"
"Okay, but let's talk about Tom Cavanagh. He is to die for. "
"Just look at her pfp. "
"I don't know him that well, and I don't know why, but I have a slight interest in Andrew Nam. He's not bad looking and he seems intelligent and humorous. "
"Brian Yu is hella cute"
"omg she's so cool and sweet I love her so much annie is so cool I wish I could be just like her and marry her"
"Hands down she's the prettiest Asian out of all the freshman, but I heard she's pretty famous for rejecting almost everyone "
"She's really sweet and funny and gorgeous and I wish I had the guts to talk to her but I can never find the right way to start a conversation"
"i am so gay + u are so cute = date me"
"okay soooooo..... I'm a girl and there's a guy im not really interested in dating but I do want to casually hook up with him. I know he would be down too and we've kissed a couple times but I don't know how to initiate anything further. He's had some bad drama from hooking up with other girls lol so that's probably why he's being a little more careful now. uh help? anybody have experience?"
"How do I get a girlfriend?"
"My grades are so much lower this quarter than what I hated for and seen in my interim and my parents will kill me when report cards come out. They're worried I won't get into a good college and all that stuff but I'm so stressed and depressed from all this pressure. What do I do?"
"I like this really shy girl, but i do not know if she likes me back. What do I do?"
"sorry, not a crush, but I have a problem. i want to make a study group (study at lunch) because I've heard it helps a lot with doing well in bio, but my friends don't seem like they want to make a study group. they'd rather hang out with their friends at lunch, and i don't want to seem like the one person who's obsessed with studying and has no friends/life. I don't want to make a study group with the rest of my ibet because i barely know them, but my friends only review for tests together like the day of the test. what should i do?"
"I'm sorry this isn't a crush but I've been feeling really depressed lately and I wanted some advice. I don't have many friends and the friends I do have aren't really the kind I match well with. Barely any of my friends from middle school came to TJ so I don't have many people to eat lunch with or hang out with. The friends I've made from ibet and other classes don't really seem to want to introduce me to their friends/I'm too shy and afraid of being clingy so I don't want to follow them around. Also, everyone pretty much belongs somewhere, like the carson group, the longfellow group, etc, and it's hard to integrate yourself into those groups because they all already know each other and its awkward trying to become close to people I just met. please help. I didn't really have social problems in middle school bc i was part of a group that id known for a while, but now the kids here only hang out with each other frown emoticon "
"I've been dating for a while now, but there's another girl that I might have a crush on. I still love my girlfriend, but I'm not sure what to do right now."
"We used to flirt a lot but now he seems to be ignoring me sometimes or responding with short answers. Meanwhile, I think he has crushes on my friends. What do I do?"
"everywhere they are [Muslims], they bring in some conflict or another."
"curry"
"Muslims of TJ- I have to imagine that you are all getting so much shit right now after the Paris attacks. I'm sorry. I'm a white Catholic, I constantly see family members saying islamophobic things on Facebook, and it makes me so angry that you have to go through this to live in America like you deserve as citizens. The GOP lately has been nasty to you, but anyone with a brain knows that they incite violence even more than they claim the Quran does. I will fight for your rights, know that you are welcome and wanted here in America. It's the xenophobic assholes that need to leave."
"Temporary profile pictures"
"Even though I met him this year, I feel like I've known him for a long time. He's fun to talk to, and he's really nice....wish I had more classes with him smile emoticon "
"Make several posts of about 20 submissions each to speed up the queue please. "
"How many people at TJ actually play League?"
"I haven't really known him for that long, but he's the most perfect human being ever to exist. Many people think he's mean, but deep down, he's a kind, thoughtful, beautiful person. Every time he laughs, it's as if a warm breeze is traveling down my back. He's not only the most handsome person I've ever met, but he'll be there for you when you need him the most; he's the whole package. I think I'm in love with him."
"I might have a crush on a guy, but he's a total flirt. I've known him for 3 years now but I still can't tell if he's into me or if he's just really being nice."
"I was in love with you. You were my best friend, you were supposed to understand. Had it been anyone else, you would've helped me through it. Why couldn't you do the same for you?"
"Can girls ask guys to dance at the Viennese Ball?"
"Sometimes I feel like I will never find love but then I see him. Whenever I see him in the hallways, I immediately avert my eyes. Does he see me looking? I glance back at him. He smiles at me and I can't help but stare. His smile lights up my world. When I see him it makes my heart race. How do I talk to him? Should I ask him to dance at the Viennese Ball? Or should I wait for him to ask me?"
"Can someone explain to me why objectification is bad? Whenever I bring it up with people and ask why its bad I get attacked and I feel like their reasoning is not even founded on logic... I would appreciate if someone could explain to me rationally without just attacking me for thinking differently."
"I hate when people act like they're better than you by choosing not to respond to messages even when you know they're obviously online and not busy with anything else. I don't mean to generalize, but I feel like its something that happens a lot more with girls, and for some reason they ignore my messages blatantly even though I'm just trying to make friends and don't even say anything weird or out of the ordinary. It would be nice if someone could explain why unsure emoticon"
"There's this girl in one of my classes who I suddenly have a huge crush on. We've joked around in class a lot and she's always hilarious, but we never really talked outside until this weekend. Now I realize she's super funny and like unbelievably cute and ahhhhhh"
"I relish every moment I spend with Hasan Ahmad"
"Nathan always reels it in the bait ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) "
"I really like kevin chaplin but I'm not sure what gender he's in to."
"if you were a booger I'd pick you. be mine <3333"
"She is nice, kind... and gorgeous too... basically I love her."
"Girls have cooties. "
"OMG this girl is super cute, nice, and smart."
"oops"
"The way his eyes sparkle like sunlight caught in morning dew makes my heart flutter every time. However, when we spoke, his voice grated on my nerves the way cheese gets grated for fondue. It was so aggravating, yet strangely endearing- like tiny children. I wanted to slap him and pinch his cheeks and give him a blanket all at the same time. If only I could find a way to sort my feelings. Shouldn't there be a folder for positive things, and a folder for the negative ones? My thoughts about him are so mixed up and I honestly don't know why I even bother. The worst thing is, he's already shown some serious interest in Eric Sun and Alex Liu. I have some serious competition going on, because I can't yoyo at all. On top of that, I am also a guy, but what if he's secretly straight? The worst thing is, I don't even like CATS."
"how do u ask someone out?"
"How do I get people to shut up about my accent. I speak English fine it's just my accent slips out on occasion."
"Pro tip about buying/thinking of a gift for your SO: Keep a bookmark folder of things they mention is cool/interesting. Definitely helps people like me who are really bad at remembering things!"
"She's so hot and cute and amazing and I wish she could see how beautiful she is. She's also super nice and she's been through so much that I wish I could give her a big hug and swoosh all her problems away. She literally will never accept a compliment though and I wish she would stop cuz it's literally the dumbest thing ever. She's beautiful though OMG. I swear I lose sleep over her."
"So I'm dating this girl, and I really like her. But we don't have any classes together and we never have time to talk. However, there's this guy in my extracurricular and we're really good friends and I think he's hot and like him a lot. I'm thinking about breaking it off with the girl, but I don't know if it's fair to do it just because I'm not really making the effort to talk to her more."
"lose interest/ let them off easily"
"I like him so much, but sometimes I wonder if it is worth starting a relationship. It's senior year and I am almost completely sure we're going to different colleges. "
"This is not a crush, but I would like to say that DJ is the nicest guy I've ever met; he's extremely kind, thoughtful, and has a smile on his face all the time. smile emoticon Anyone agree? "
"This is not a crush..."
"When it comes to crushes I'm always too vague and I never say anything until its too late. Advice?"
"say something i'm givng up on uuuuu"
"She is so hipster. It's cute. And its adorable when she flips people off. I don't have any classes with her and I can't get the courage to go up to her with her group of friends at lunch and talk to her. "
"How do you do a Viennese asking? Is it the same as a Homecoming asking? It's so embarrassing .-."
"14 years ago, our nation was involved in one of the most gruesome terrorists attacks in history. Today, November 13, 2015, the citizens of Paris were equally damaged by the sinful acts of ISIS. I am praying for everyone in Paris; they did not deserve this kind of sh*t. ‪#‎PrayforParis‬ "
"Joyce Liu is so frickin nice and beautiful and amazing and I can't get over how fantastic she looked at homecoming."
"IT SUCKS I CANT COME OUT TO MY CLOSEST FRIENDS YET I'VE COME OUT TO PEOPLE THAT I DONT REALLY TALK WITH EVERYTHING IS HARD CAUSE I FEEL LIKE THEY DESERVE TO KNOW BUT THEY MEAN SO MUCH TO ME AND I DONT WANNA LOSE THEM"
"shes so busy with school that we barely get to spend any time together"
"Laura Gersony is freaking perfect."
"Habeen Chang is a god."
"Christina Wei is my bae"
"When you can't tell if she likes you or if she's just really nice"
"pull it in... with that bass tho. "
"She seems pretty crazy. I'm ok with this."
"Melanie you're so cute + beautiful + suuuper nice pls stop being perfect I can't take it anymoreeee frown emoticon"
"What do I do if I asked my crush to slow dance during hoco, but she was like 'nah this isn't slow dance music' (and while she's right...still) "
"I've liked this girl for the longest time even though shes probably one of the strangest people ive met. strange in a good way though. she has a great sense of humor and she goes out of her way to help people like last year i wouldve missed my chem final if she didnt remind me to sign up for the makeup and that wouldve been very sad. but she also lacks a bunch of common sense and Tbh for the longest time I thought she was pretty unintelligent because basically her entire life consists of sleeping eating and watching dramas and last year she walked straight into a pole and i dont even remember how many times ive seen her tripping over her own feet and she still doesnt know where our school gym is. but then she got a perfect on the sat and she fricking skipped bc and on top of that shes pretty much the youngest in our entire grade and i realized how dumb i was to think that frown emoticon I wished I could have asked her to hc because ive liked her for 3 years but i didnt because i was too scared frown emoticon whenever i see her shes always with some other guy and i can never seem to be able to talk to her. ok this is getting long so basically I LOVE YOU PLS NOTICE ME OK BYE<33"
"Hey freshmen on the bus!!! This is a PSA. Pass up the trash. Seriously. We had to pass it up, the juniors had to pass it up, the seniors had to pass it up, and the freshmen after you have to pass it up. Don't be THAT person who thinks they're "above" making the buses cleaner. "
"I just find it really sad that no one ever chats me first unless its for homework help or so I can help them with their problems."
"ok so this isn't a crush but there is this one friend in our circle that always pulls someone away when we are all socializing together to talk to them individually about something secret. It's happened many many times now and it really makes the rest of us feel left out and excluded. The friend always takes just one person away from the group to talk about their crush or some drama that's going on. I mean it's fine to ask for advice, but please do it when you and that person are alone to begin with so that the rest of us don't feel bad and annoyed. "
"How do you let a girl know you like her without being too obvious/creepy"
"You smell nice today"
"I like you."
"Lowrey Peyton is just the nicest freaking person ever and she's so smart and hardworking and gorgeous and she is my woman crush Wednesday omfg why is she so fraking awesome "
"fraking"
"‪#‎wcw‬ Sophia Pentakalos is AMAZING. I love her personality and her enthusiasm!!!!! She's going to go far! Everyone is obsessed with her basically. She inspires me in so many ways. I always think about how she works so hard and is so motivated/ committed to what she does and how she makes everyone feel great about themselves. Like JUST AMAZING."
""He's so tall and handsome as hell"
"I realized that I like a guy that my friend has a thing with...he's so sweet and adorable and we have 4 classes together, but they're also so cute together and gah I don't know what to do, because she's one of my best friends."
"I want to know the exact difference between a squish and a crush. "
"I'm in a relationship but I've heard if you can't love yourself you shouldn't try loving someone else because your entire you wouldn't be in it. I don't know what to do anymore, I'm afraid my insecurities will tear us apart."
"I've changed my sleep schedule from going to bed at 11 and waking up at 6 to going to bed at 5 and waking up at 12-1. My parents dislike and keep trying to get me to change back, but it's improved my grades and doubled my productivity. What do I do?"
"When you think that someone might be interested in you, but then you realize that you're wrong as they're wayy out of your league. Michelle Liang"
"I really like Sriram and I think he knows it. What do I do. I don't want to ruin our friendship if he doesn't feel the same way."
"This school is simultaneously the source of all my problems, stress, and rage, but at the same time the only thing that keeps me going. "
"How does everyone fall in love with Sophia Pentakalos so fast?"
"i think like him but he always likes someone else"
"He's such a cutie in IBET. Always so bubbly, happy, and always making my day❤"
"I'm not even in her grade, but she seems really nice and cute. heart emoticon"
"Sriram Amirneni"
"I can't tell if he likes me or not, but I catch him staring at me a lot and we text almost everyday. But my friends tell me that he isn't worth it and that he is always fake to girls. I don't know what to do?"
"crushes"
"I wonder how you feel about me. Do you hate me? Sometimes I think I see you roll your eyes when I call your name, but then sometimes you reach out to me and try to talk to me, and then I get dragged right back into you. I'm pretty sure you know about my feelings and yet you give me all of these mixed signals, I just don't know what to do. And maybe I'm just a horrible human being because I can't move on from you, but what can I do? I want it so bad and its not happening. Stop consuming my thoughts, please."
"Why does it even matter if you get an a- one quarter? No one can see that right? Like anything you apply for? Doesn't only the final grade matter and if you get a's in the other quarters you can have an a overall right? "
"That moment when your crush lives in a different country and you've never met them but you just stalk them on Facebook..... WOOPS "
"I love sun li so much. I do not know if he feels the same way about me. I hope one day he will recognize me"
"He is the most attractive guy in our grade, but idk how to approach him..."
"She's perfect and i'm far from it"
"Is it odd to have a large crush on many people at once."
"will the hot boys ever come back?????? @ germany"
"when you know your crush is asking someone else out in a few weeks...."
"who was I for the last xx years?", only to realize you're FAKE. Little side note, half of those "crushes" are written by people of the same gender, no guy writes like that. Hey Mr. Burke, if you are reading this, I want you to know that the number of likes doesn't correspond to the people who agree, cause most who do don't want the association. Finally one last thing. Practical knowledge != textbook knowledge. Stop thinking you're some genius if you only know the textbook side of things. Cool, I can give you a math problem and you can solve it! But when put into a work/business/research setting most of you 'geniuses' break down. In before SGA comments "Hey anon, we understand! But we aren't going to do anything because we're SGA" , in before active minds says, "Say something! without making a negative appearance of yourself!" Another side note, you guys probably remember that video about the non-profits that got 100+ likes! Well, if someone posted that with their actual account people would flip out get so angry! Sum things up: Legit think I would learn more at a base hs. Anyway, rant over."
"Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of human freedoms - to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one's own way."
"How important is GPA in college admissions? Mine isn't too good and i'm stressed out (and i know life is not just determined by a number or a grade but it is very important in highschool, no matter how many people say its not)"
"I'm a freshman and I really like someone, but she gives off that 'popular vibe' and is always talking to friends, whereas I'm more of a smart, relatively nerdy kid who is generally quiet and unable to easily communicate with girls, esp ones I'm not friends with. How can I get her to know I exist and talk to me? The instant response will be to just say hi but I don't think I can do that, because it's almost like we're different 'classes' and she might not like that. Or perhaps these barriers are just an illusion. That's why I'd like some advice. "
"good friend"
"Alex Liu is so hot. He's always surrounded by girls and I just hope he'd notice me. I'm not the flashiest girl out there. I'm just a normal girl. But it'd make my day if he just came over to me and said hi every once in awhile."
"I think I like Olivia Xia and I really want her to notice me. She is really pretty and fun to be around. But apparently, she's always rejecting people. I don't really think much is going to happen between us, but I really hope she learns to open up to others and actually get a boyfriend. I don't want her to turn into one of those hags with like 20 cats and no man."
"He's so sexy and has really nice abs also he's funny and okay at bio heart emoticon we should hang out sometime "
"Why you so nice and pretty."
"Is it just me, or has Chad Constantine been getting swole lately? He's lowkey one of the cutest guys in 2017 heart emoticon"
"I have a crush on her... which really sucks, because I am a girl."
"You are the single most adorable persAhn at this school:)"
"Who is Nick Yoon and why should I have a crush on him?"
"okay at bio"
"Sorry this isn't a crush but are freshman allowed to run for ExComm?"
"should I run for SGA? I'm kinda nervous about it bc i'm not popular so I don't think I'll get a lot of votes"
"Sorry this isn't a crush, but what can we do if we do not agree with the delegates that were chosen for WMHSMUN? Some of the delegates were very snotty and rude when the chairs were not watching."
"I have a squish on both a girl and one of her best friends... and I'm pretty sure that they both have similar feelings, but I don't want to be the cause any conflicts between them. unsure emoticon"
"some people don't want help" is hugely problematic -- although you quickly clarify that you're not "saying it's on them"
"He is so tall and his voice is so deep. His business success makes him that much more dreamy. Every time I look into his eyes, I see he's so genuine and truly cares. HIs long EYELASHES make me go crazy omg!!!! He's also the kinda guy that takes care of his physical/social image and I like that a lot wink emoticon Everything put together makes him so unobtainable and the perfect guy for anyone. He's single and I want to make a move but I'm afraid he thinks way less of me than I do of him frown emoticon Anyways, yeah Rhamy is perfect!!!!"
"i fell in love over a year ago. she graduated last year, and i have tried to move on. i've had crushes, i've even dated people, but the feelings just aren't the same. i don't think it's me being sentimental or trying to be loyal. i'm sure that you will tell me ""just give it time""
"i really really like her and admire her and aspire to be like her but i think we got off on the wrong foot but she's sososo cute and good at everything she does whether it's sports or arts or academics and all i want is to be her friend and for her to like me too, even as just an acquaintance. such a ray of sunshine and cuteness and so sweet i wish we had classes together :((("
"I see him everyday but he's not in any of my classes. He's smart, funny, but I don't even think he notices me frown emoticon "
"He's so smart, handsome and sporty. Every time i see him in the hallway i just want him to be mine. But sadly i can never get near him every time i get near him my heart just stops beating and i forget how to breath. I mean who wouldnt he has like the biggest biceps in the world not to mention his oscar award winning face and his abs of steel. I just want to be with him and his future hollywood career. PLZ NOTICE ME."
"I'm tryna scheme on this girl but she just wants to be friends. How does one escape the friend zone?"
"Ruyan is just the cutest person ever colonthree emoticon and i love his voice and demeanor."
"What should I do if I have a crush on myself? This is not a troll question."
"People at tj are midgets"
"Tamun Hanjra is the nicest person I have ever met."
"I like Michelle Liang's hair but I don't know anything about her. ._."
"I have literally had the biggest crush on Shreya forever. I should just tell her."
"theres this guy i really like but he's known to lead people on maybe because hes just too nice. and i think its kinda obvious i like him but idk if hes really just clueless or if hes just a player. how do i find out if he really does have an interest in me?"
"Oh my gosh this girl. super cute. sucks that she has such a great girlfriend. but like WOW ammirite ladiez."
"She's amazing, nice, beautiful, friendly, and is there if I need someone to talk to. She's caring, wonderful, and great at dancing. She makes my heart race and always puts a smile on my face. Anna Xu is perfect in every way possible. heart emoticon"
"Ahad Rizvi is actually the best. Hes so awkward and it's adorable. His hair is always on point too. I wish I had more classes with him frown emoticon"
"Ever since I came to TJ last year, I've been feeling like something was missing. I don't have any real friends here, the kind that you actively look forward to seeing or the kind that you text simply because you genuinely want to. I don't live in fairfax, so I've lost touch with people that I had that kind of friendship with. Reconnecting with them is almost impossible because TJ takes up all of my time (commute struggles are real). you'll never see me being invited to the birthday parties of the people that I even hang out with regularly. Its starting to get a little depressing. "
"He's so sweet and funny and just amazing in general... I'm really glad that I met him because now he's literally the reason I wake up smiling. I can't believe he's not tired yet because he keeps running through my head. When we text, my heart beats insanely fast, and I always find myself rereading our texts... I hope something will happen in the future♥"
"how do you get your ex boyfriend back?"
"The best day ever: when the people who wrote each TJ Crush is revealed."
"Anna is so cute but idk if she's into girls...."
"I can't stop thinking about her"
"There's no better feeling than that moment when she says yes."
"Wow Nate Foss is sooo cool!!! captain of xc AND sct. and so nice too! gasp emoticon"
"woman crush: sabria kazmi is so beautiful and kind!!"
"I have a crush on Gavin (idk his last name) he is in some of my classes and he's got a great personality"
"I HAVE A CRUSH ON ALL OF THE SENIORS IN TJMC. THEY HAVE ALL WORKED SUPER HARD, AND MADE OUR MARCHING BAND SHOW AMAZING!! WE WILL MISS YOU GUYS SO MUCH NEXT YEAR AND WE LOVE YOU GUYS heart emoticon"
"its taken me three years at a STEM school to realize that i want nothing to do with stem for the rest of my life... whatever. "
"I'm pretty sure he doesn't know I exist. But I always see him walk by and everytime I pass him we make slight eye contact but I always look away. I don't know how to approach im without being super awkward because he knows my sibling and I'd hate to humiliate myself especially if he isn't interested in getting to know me. He has a really cute smile and I really want to get to know him ): anyways, just had to get it out though lol"
"FMD me anytime"
"I am really interested in this girl in my class and I want to get to know her. Any tips on how to start?"
"hey, do you come here often?"
"Squeeeeeeeeeeze"
"When my friends first found out who I liked, they immediately asked, "Do you think he's hot?"
"hot" was just some sort of inside joke. But as my life progressed, I realized that I apparently was not experiencing all aspects of a crush: although I certainly thought my crush was handsome, I did not think of him as hot, sexy, or anything of the sort. When I told this to my friends, they responded with, "You don't actually like him, then."
"crushes"
"Hi, intruder here. I don't go to TJ but I think what you're doing is simply beautiful. Thank you."
"I have a crush on Victoria Yang, and have been for almost 4 years now. I wish we could be like Danny and Mindy, but I can't work up the courage to tell her how I feel."
"Sajni is literally the most beautiful and hottest person I have ever seen! I don’t have classes with her, and I only see her in the hallways once a day. (where I find her ALWAYS talking which is extremely cute). I need to think of ways to talk to her! frown emoticon Does anyone know how? They say one day dreams come true and my dream will always be with Sajni."
"i wanna try out for basketball this winter, and i definitely think i can make JV and possibly varsity, but doesn't varsity not practice till 6 on weekdays? Freshman and JV practice right after school so its ok but for varsity, what do you do? i live like an hour away so i can't just go home. Does anyone who's been on varsity basketball tell me how they handled school work??"
"What should I do if my crush was slow dancing with someone else at hoco?"
"I got to know her a little more during hoco but its still pretty awkward between us. We have no classes, 8th periods, or even lunch but I really like her and I have no idea if she likes me. Help on what to do - I want to talk to her but there are rarely any opportunities... frown emoticon"
"He is pretty funny, and his writing is so good! We are good friends but I don't think he knows how much I like him, but I do think he looks much better with the bleached hair. So cute xD "
"so I go to oakton but watching the tj askings on snapchat and Facebook was the cutest thing ever"
"why am i always the person who has to text/message first"
"tfw you think a girl is pretty but she thinks you're weird"
"I had pizza today. Pizza is fun. I like pizza."
"Philip Cho. 'nuff said"
"Roshni is just the cutest girl I have ever seen heart emoticon"
"HOT AF wink emoticon"
"that kid from english" or something. i too have cried before because a lot of other people just think i don't have friends or something cuz they never see me with anyone, but in reality, its just that they're not in my grade frown emoticon"
"I know that relationships are built on trust and understanding, but is there a limit? Must I tell my partner everything? And I'm not willing to do that am I not ready for one? -ttt"
"we kinda clicked at the end of hoco but he wants to just be friends??? and we dont have any classes together or 8th periods or lunch but i might like him? maybe? and idk but i think he maybe liked me before but i dont even know what we are now... i just wish we could get past this awkward phase and either be friends or more, instead of this weird in-between!"
"I'm trying to work up the courage to talk to someone I like, but find myself lacking both body positivity and self confidence. I've gotten a little tired of telling friends and them just saying "Oh stop you're pretty." Does anyone know where I can find some good workout routines/music to help boost my morale? Thank you."
"hey fam"
"I've been very confused lately. Sometimes I feel like I have a crush on someone, and want to hang out with them all the time, but I never feel anything that seems like "love". Other times I feel attracted to what I see on tv and the internet, but that just doesn't seem real. I'm just a very confused person right now."
"If you don't, then lie"
"Everyone i have ever loved has either openly hated me or started to date someone else... I'm sick of this pain and heartbreak"
"I was going to ask Sophia Pentakalos out to HoCo, but my mom said no. frown emoticon"
"Dang Sophia stole my man again."
"Nobody ever messages me first unless they need homework help. Except for one person, and they make my day every time."
"Help! All of my friends are telling me that I have to pay for everything for my date (ticket, dinner etc), and we're all in a group chat and my date said its fine if she pays for her stuff, but now I feel bad, but I'd rather not "waste" (for lack of a better term) money on this. what should I do?"
"I feel like when people have crushes, I'm never a candidate for it. Have I ever been asked to a dance or been crushed on? No. Personally I've never had a crush but I feel like that's a direct result of my situation. Am I doing something wrong?"
"honestly "same boat not cutthroat" pisses me off. the phrase basically takes a serious problem with the education system and says "the problem here isn't the system, it's your mindset". looking at the problem from a different angle doesn't make it go away, and encouraging people to "be positive!!!"
"same boat, cutthroat, and sick of it"
"Education Should Not Be This Expensive: @USGovernment, What's Good"
"Outliers"
"People are offended too easily nowadays."
"He makes me feel like shit about myself but I can't stop liking him"
"It's sad and scary how, that after senior year, we'll seldom see each other again."
"I'm in love with my best friend smile emoticon "
"Recently I've developed a crush- I love DP! heart emoticon"
"i have crushes that i really like but i never want to date anyone"
"I WISH HE WOULD ASK ME OUT ALREADY frown emoticon"
"Tamun Hanjra is the nicest girl I've ever met. She's absolutely gorgeous and is fun to be around. Her smile is contagious and I love her eyes. Hope someday the feeling will be mutual smile emoticon"
"is it still ok to ask a friend to hoco even though asking week is over?"
"this isn't a crush but it's urgent, it's about hoco. I thought i had a group to go with but after i didn't hear any plans i found out they were planning stuff without me. I thought they were my friends...and now idk what to do"
"I wonder why we are so awkward now"
"Wow. Dylan Klapper is amazing."
"He's kinda cute. smile emoticon"
"She is a little sassy but in a good way smile emoticon"
"i have the biggest squish on Rachel Vasta"
"Alex Yun is beautiful."
"She's the bae heart emoticon"
"There is some subtle beauty about her. When I talk to her I can see this beautiful luster in her eyes reminiscent of cliche things like diamonds or gold. But in her eyes I see love, I feel comfort and joy. I often ask her the same questions over and over again on a daily basis, knowing the answers to those questions and just wanting to hear her voice. A voice that rings out a tone of kindness. I don't wish to use her name because I am confused, I fear losing a friend and risking what I have now for a dream, a dream that I am not worthy of. I want nothing less than the best for her and but I am not that standard. But I do love her, at least to the extent that I understand love...."
"Hey whats the tech homework?"
"Oh, nothing."
"It was just a crush and we went to different high schools, but why can't I get over him even though it's been two years? I had a few interests here and there, but he still remains in my mind all the time. I don't know what to do, and it's killing me."
"During high school, pretty much everyone's mental health is on the line. It's really hard to feel unloved, and it's even worse to know that I'm causing myself to be unloved. I know everyone loves to say that they don't judge people based on looks, but let's be honest... that's a complete lie. Looks are a lot in high school. I just wanted to raise awareness of dermatillomania. Dermatillomania is a mental disorder that causes you to pick at your skin (it is a form of OCD). I am a victim of this disorder, and there are most likely many more in TJ. I hate myself most of the time because I'm covered in scabs and scars; it's terrible to know you cause your own pain. I can't stop it though, no matter how hard I try. Many people suffer from this illness... No they are not on drugs, no it's not normally self harm, no you can't just stop, and telling me to stop and that it's easy to is annoying and stupid. Please don't judge people on their scars or cuts, they aren't gross pizza faces or druggies, they're real people with a problem they can't control."
"If you're sad because you didn't get asked, I just want you to know that it doesn't mean you're not special! Just look forward to hoco with a group of friends rather than one person. It kinda sucks to feel lonely when everyone you know is obsessed with this. But don't worry, it's halfway done! And there is a special someone for you, even if they aren't here right now smile emoticon just keep in mind that i feel your struggle and that you are loved a lot <333"
"This isn't a crush, just something I wanted to say about someone. At the start of last year, we were good friends and always had something to talk about. Then stuff happened and that changed, but I think things are a bit better now. I don't like her like that, just hope that we can go back to being better friends like last year."
"i wish i was better at showing how i feel. i care so much but i'm insecure and try to "play it cool"
"SOMEONE PLEASE TELL TAMUN TO BE MORE CONFIDENT SHE IS SO PERFECT LIKE WTF HOW CAN SOMEONE BE SO PRETTY? honestly i think she likes a senior tho...tamun don't let anyone tell you you're not worth it, you are, if you ever ended up liking me back, i would be so happy. "
"she's so pretty and has the best sarcastic sense of humor ever. everyday she's super cheery (even though she constantly says she's dead inside) I really want to ask her to homecoming (and so does someone I know) so watch your back m8 (she says it a ton and it's super cute)"
"Four years of asking weeks. Four years of false hopes. Maybe, just maybe he'll ask me - because, you know, he smiled to me that one time. I dress nicely. A burst of hope quickly flickers and dies again and again whenever this week rolls around."
"A friend of mine (TJ 20**) tried to kill herself Tuesday night. She's ok and is back at school but hug your friends and ask them how they are doing right now. Watch them to make sure nothing is up. It might save a life."
"I am so grateful Stella is single. This means I finally have a chance with my dream girl! Next step, muster up the courage to talk to her. Any advice?"
"hi"
"I think I'm in love with you. You dont realize how beautiful you really are which upsets me so much, but you're so effing gorgeous and it makes me sad to know you doesn't think that way. Honestly, I think that one of the things that makes people unique is their "spark", or their positive energy. You are is simply filled with it--enough to fill an entire room and everybody in it. I can tell, you have been through some hard times, but the fact that you are still pushing through and defeating every obstacle in your path is truly amazing. I admire and love you, just know that you are beautiful and amazing and every other positive quality a person can have. I love your smile--no, not the fake smile you give to trick people into thinking youre happy, but the real genuine smile of happiness. Please smile more smile emoticon"
"TJ is a competition. No one will be able to tell you otherwise honestly. But I'd like to remind everyone of a simple fact. Life is not a competition. As good as you think you are, and even as good as you may be, our grave will be the same size."
"There is this really hot guys I want to ask to hoco. He's so funny and has a great personality, but there is one problem. I think people will judge me if I take myself out on a date."
"There is this really supahot* guy*..."
"Philip Cho is so sexy haha... I really wanna ask him to hoco but i'm a girl and gender stereotypes y'know? tongue emoticon Anyways, Philip if you see this I think it's pretty obvious who I am wink emoticon"
"I hate myself. I don't know why I expect someone else to like me enough to go to homecoming with me if I don't even like myself. And if by some off chance this person likes me, there's probably something wrong with them."
"http://www.girlsaskguys.com/.../q472102-i-don-t..." and "https://answers.yahoo.com/question/index..."
"Joseph Kim is so freaking sweet. I love his sense of humor and he is so good at Ultimate! I wish he'd asked me to hoco. Maybe next year..?"
"I don't talk to her that much but she's really really hot and we're both freshmen this year but somebody already asked her to homecoming. How do I get the opportunity to go to another event or dance with her this year and how do I start talking to her without her thinking it's just because she's hot"
"Do guys usually ask the same person to homecoming all four years?"
"I just met this girl this year. I kind of think she may be out of my league. Plus we don't really talk outside of class, and she's probably unaware of me. Should I ask her to homecoming?"
"I've had a crush on him for a while. He's really cute, funny, and just makes me laugh even if I'm feeling down that day. I don't know if he'll ask me to homecoming, but my friends all say he likes me back. I hope he does, but only time will tell kiki emoticon"
"This is not a crush omg but a popular football player and a popular cheerleader going to hoco together. This is like a classic relationship found in movies. They look so cute together and I hope they stay together forever. They give me motivation to find someone who is right for me. "
"Is anyone planning to go to HC alone? if you are, what do u exactly to do?"
"so freaking sweet"
"I want someone to ask me to hoco. I dont even care who. But im not "Asking material." My friends and I are just sadly watching everybody getting asked and its all cute and we're like...asdjfl;"
"can a girl ask another girl to hoco?"
"I have had a crush on this guy since freshman year but nothing ever happened. But I am not totally sure he liked me. Now this year, I have been becoming close to this other guy and I think he may ask me to homecoming. Should I hold out hope to see if the first guy is going to ask me or should I just go with the second guy? "
"I want to ask this girl to hoco, but I'm pretty sure that at least one other guy is also planning to ask her. What should I do?"
"How serious is a hoco "date"?"
"He and I decided to take a break, and it's the week before homecoming. What do I do? I really wanted to be asked this year. frown emoticon"
"HELP HOW DO I REJECT SOMEONE IF THEY PUBLICALLY ASK ME TO HOCO"
"please help asap: how can I ask my crush to hoco without being extremely awkward, but also not really creepily?"
"I'm a sophomore, and I can't find anyone I'm intrested in, who do I ask???"
"Jane, Will you go to homecoming with me? - John"
"umm how do you explain askings to parents who don't even know what hoco is?? unless, like, l mean, someone wants to buy materials for me???"
"Only one person out of my entire friend group hasn't been asked/has a date. I don't want her to feel left out but I know if I asked her she would insist that she's fine with it. Should I just leave the situation alone?"
"I want to ask a girl to homecoming who I talked with sometimes last year. But this year we have no classes together and havent really talked since. So what should i do?"
"I want someone to ask me. The problem is I would be happy to go with anyone but I haven't heard of any plans involving me. I got rejected last year at my formal and I'm afraid of going through that process again because I took the risk and asked the guy instead of vice versa. What should I do?"
"Is it socially acceptable for a girl to ask a guy to homecoming? If so, how common is it?"
"I've had a thing for her since 9th grade, but she's always with other guys. She seems so out of reach, when it comes to homecoming or just in general. I want to ask her this year, but she's too popular for me. She'll definitely get asked by this other guy that's more qualified than me. "
"Like if you're getting asked/asking someone to hoco wink emoticon"
"2016 has so many pretty girls... Cheryl, Juliana, Geetika, Ella, Stella, Shreya, Claire, Chritra, and so many others..."
"How can asexuality be natural? Doesn't everyone want to have sex in order to reproduce? That makes zero sense whatsoever in my mind logically... Can someone explain please, I want to learn and be more educated but I just don't get it."
"Can someone please explain what a "neo pronoun"
"Neo-pronouns" is a general term used to refer to pronouns that have been invented in the last few decades to fill the need for pronouns other than he and she in the English language. Lots of people use neo-pronouns, such as "xe" to "ne,"
"Dear freshmen in the morning buses, please take note of the sleep-deprived students who are trying to sleep or do their homework, before yelling to your friends who are only 3 feet away from you. mucho gracias"
"just a question: is it weird to like someone without knowing much about him? like I have had a crush on this guy for a very long time... idk we're friends and i just like talking to him and hes really nice and cute...but when i think about it i dont know what color he likes, what food he likes, what music he listens to... i never thought to ask and it felt weird to ask him directly b/c i thought that would make it obvious that i like him. what do i do? i want to know him better but i already like him..a lot.. is that weird?"
"true love"
"She seems like she's so friendly to everyone, even to us freshmen. She looks like an amazing person just in general. I wish I could get to know her better. "
"How do you find out if someone's single without being too obvious?"
"What if you have a crush on a teacher?"
"I really like a girl who is a year younger than me, but I don't know her at all. What am I supposed to do?"
"I'm developing a crush on one of my best friends' boyfriend how do i stop this from happening"
"How do you even have time to have a crush at TJ lol"
"I kinda wanna try out for the musical, but not for the reason everyone thinks. There's this girl who's probably trying out, and I know she's gonna get a good part despite being a freshman. I wanna be in it to be with her, but 1. I'm probably not even getting a part and 2. I'm a guy so people might call me gay for doing it since I don't wanna tell anyone about my crush. What do I do???"
"I love when Asian girls at TJ aren't the stereotypical nerd but don't try to overcompensate and be basic white girls. She's smart and funny but she's also really sporty and has dope art skills. We're kinda friends but we don't talk that much. Plus I don't think she'd ever be interested in a guy like me..."
"how do we(freshman) get to know ppl outside of our ibet rotation??? i feel like im missing a lot because im not in a popular ibet..."
"I'm a sophomore and want a date to homecoming but I have very little experience with girls and all my friends are guys. Help?"
"I want to ask Fiona Carcani to homecoming but I don't think she even knws I exist unsure emoticon"
"I'm the author of that bisexuality post earlier. To clarify, I'm not coming out, because people associate being gay with gay pride. I'm not proud of being bi, I just am. I'm not different, I just happen to like girls and guys. I don't want to go to GSA, because I'm not different. My sexual orientation does not and should not define me. "
"accept that you're different!"
"He's so amazing. I never had a type or an ideal boyfriend in mind, but the more time I spend with him, the more I think that he's it. He's so hardworking and smart and talented and all the little things he does for me make me wonder why I ever deserved to be with someone like him. And while we're not officially together yet, I feel like it is going to happen sooner or later. The thing is, I want it to be sooner. But he needs time. "
"Can freshmen ask sophomores to homecoming? There's this girl I really want to ask, and shes been so nice to the freshmen I'm thinking she won't mind. "
"can you ask the same person to homecoming twice?"
"I'm a freshmen and I like this girl But I don't know if she will say yes if I ask her to homecoming? I want to do a "big" asking but you know it would be awkward if she says no. Any advice? "
"prescreen"
"I don't know this girl very well, but we get along pretty nicely in the occasions that we do get to talk. I want to ask her to homecoming, but I feel it may be inappropriate since we aren't really good friends or anything. I feel conflicted, because she really is the girl I like. Advice?"
"I don't know this gif very well"
"There is this girl on my bus, I don't know anything about her, except for her name and the fact that she is the most beautiful girl in the world. I really want to ask her for hoco, but need to actually talk to her and get to know her a little. How do I talk to her????????ANY ADVICE???"
"Hi my name is _______"
"I noticed you're attractive just like me. Let's be attractive together. Homecoming?"
"ugly" girls from their middle school who no one will ask to hoco. like. why are you even saying that. and gym is a nightmare in the locker room the girls are mean and ppl DO make fun of you for being unathletic... and i have no friends in my ibet. like ppl are already making group chats and stuff and i feel so left out bc everyone ik is in this other ibet... ik everyone will say to just make friends but i cant explain. all these ppl in the comments are saying that they "love"
"Is it weird to not ask a girl to homecoming cuz I barely know any of the freshmen so far? "
"The savior of lock up, his knowledge of video games is as large as he is. Notice me Senpai."
"I cannot believe I have no classes with Annie Wang, she is so perfect and I would ask her to home coming but someone else is😍😍😍😭😭"
"I want to Gou to homecoming with him heart emoticon"
"I'm so sick of people making fun of nonbinary genders and neopronouns as "special snowflake." If you do this you are transphobic trash."
"I just really want to go to homecoming this year. Any 2016 girls who want a date? "
"I'm sorry to be another post not about a crush! I know it gets annoying! But I need to know how hoco works. I honestly have no idea where to start. Like do you go to someones house first? Then dance? Then what? What's the order of events is what I'm trying to ask. Is there any specific thing that you have to do like what are those flower things on the guy's suits? How long does hoco last? Is there a after party? If you comment a full explanation of hoco I would be so happy!"
"‪#‎closeFCPS‬"
"how long is the wait to get something posted?"
"You should seriously consider legally changing your last name to Issues."
"I have really sweaty hands (hyperhidrosis) that make me not want to come in contact with other people including my crush"
"Omg Christopher is the most amazing person I have ever met. First of all, he's GORGEOUS. He's also super smart, nice, and hardworking AND he has so much energy like he actually wants to be here and he's soooo good at public and interpersonal speaking. Like his body is GOALS."
"She is in my homeroom (too big of a hint? 😊) and it's really hard for me to stop staring at her."
"Is it just me or did David Yan get hotter over the summer if that's even possible? his new haircut makes him look 😍"
"How can I ask this girl to homecoming without it meaning that we're dating?"
"also will you be my girlfriend?"
"DAYM asking week is next week? Isnt there usually advertisement about this all over TJ by now?"
"When is asking week this year?"
"I've never truly cared about being asked to dances or being in a relationship or anything like that, but lately I've started thinking about the fact that I've never been asked or been crushed on (at least as far as I know) No kidding it would be nice, but then I'd probably be super awkward about it. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not even a candidate in this "sea"
"I have a "crush" on multiple girls...what do I do?"
"Her name is Stefanie Hession. I might ask her to hoco. :?"
"HEY! LISTEN!"
"He's kinda cute."
"He's really kind, exceptionally funny, and super smart. He's a pretty nice guy, although it doesn't seem like it at first. The only problem is that I feel so worthless, ugly, and unpopular. I feel like I'm never going to be asked to homecoming. I just wish I could transform myself into someone prettier, smarter, and more talented. frown emoticon. Even my own friends don't really like me. It's like no one wants to sit with me at lunch or even talk, unless it's about homework or something they need help with. "
"tips for French 2 with delfosse?"
"I failed my first ap bio test (63%) and am thinking of dropping out. Am I overreacting? "
"@Anna Thamasett is the most beautiful girl at TJ. She's always so friendly and makes everyone around her happy. Her smile is my favorite part about her, and her hair always looks perfect. It's great to have amazing people like her at TJ, I wish I had the gutts to ask her out heart emoticon"
"I wanna ask this girl to homecoming but like casually so it doesn't really mean anything. What's the best way?"
"Do you have a date for homecoming yet? Want to go with me?"
"If I did ask you to hoco, would you say yes?"
"is it okay to go to hoco alone? I think all of my friends are going to get asked but I'm not good friends with any guys unsure emoticon I don't want to be the awkward 3rd wheel"
"I've had a crush on her since freshman year. However, I wasn't able to ask her to homecoming that year because I didn't know her too well, and I was scared of rejection. Unfortunately, I have no classes with her. Now, we occasionally see each other in the hallway and smile, but that's about it. Homecoming feels like an impending force, and I feel pressured because I haven't asked anyone in my previous years. I question whether I should summon the courage to tell her my feelings. Should I confess? If I do ask her, does it have to be public?"
"cute hoco asking ideas?"
"What's a squish?"
"I've got a squish on her cuz she's literally perfect, but fortunately I'm still sane tongue emoticon"
"Super nice. I remember when he got that sexy new haircut. Disappointed I don't get to talk him much anymore. "
"Can you ask someone to homecoming as a friend and it not be hella awkward?"
"like if you like someone wink emoticon"
"divine"
"extremists"
"How do I know if this is true love or just infatuation? I know I should probably wait a bit to see if my feelings still hold true after the test of time, but I want to be with my crush now frown emoticon"
"love at first sight"
"Just wanted to say that I'm in love with this page heart emoticon It's good to see positive comments and posts everyday. TY to the people who host the page!"
"I read all of these crushes posts and can't help but wonder... As a senior, I have not yet had a single crush in my life... Is there something wrong with me? I see couples all around but I am not really that interested in being in a relationship or anything... Is there anyone that feels similarly to me, or am I some kind of robot? "
"perfection and normal stereotypes"
"I've been friends with this guy for a little over 2 years now but we just recently got close. I never thought of him in a romantic way but our mutual friends have been telling me that he likes me and I don't really know if it's true or how I feel about it. Help?"
"tw: depression, discussions of abandonment, mental breakdown"
"He was my best friend. I tried for years to keep it that way. I brushed aside the things he did, the things he said, the way he acted, because he was my best friend. But I realized I couldn't go on like this anymore, I felt so stupid every day. I'm done now - I learned you really need to get to know a person before becoming too attached. Now I'm afraid to build a relationship with anyone... it always hurts"
"I like Victoria Chuah. A lot. She's beautiful and funny and kind, but I respect her enough not to do anything about it. I'd just like to remain friends."
"How do people find enough time to date and keep a meaningful relationship with a significant other? I am scared to get into anything due to the fear of screwing up school and the relationship. Please help frown emoticon"
"All the talk about "Same boat not cut throat"
"yes we are all here for each other" but nobody was there for me when I needed it most. "
"Just a question, what is aromanticness? I dont understand how anyone can be aromantic when love is like the most important thing in the world. Can someone explain to me what this is all about?"
"so done w/ relationships right now."
"Life is about relationships, the rest is just details."
"hallo! the german exchange students are super hot"
"shoutout to people who have platonic crushes or squishes!! "
"I saw him in the morning announcements and he looks exactly like Ansel Elgort. Can someone tag his profile?"
"i wish we could still be friends"
"There's this guy in my comp sci class and he's really hot, but he's also super funny and we get along like we've known each other for years (we met this year). He's also in my IBET (but not the same rotation) I want him to ask me to homecoming but idk how?!?!?"
"undercover"
"Beautiful, and lovely. Makes me smile everyday. Many laughs, many tears. My love for Dank Memes are forever real. heart emoticon"
"Sorry, not a crushes post, iM just curious... Can someone just explain to me what all the sexuality's are in the LGBTA+ abbreviation? I know Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Ally,(Not sure where straight fits in tho?) but what is in the plus? Sorry, I am new to the concept and want to learn, but we weren't really taught this so i am hesitant about asking in person... "
"Wishful Thinking, but she doesn't like me."
"I'm bisexual, but I hate gay culture. I would come out, but I'd hate to be lumped with that kind of people."
"stereotype" their own without even realizing it. We need to work on being inclusive vs exclusive. Being Bi is sometimes the toughest place to be because you don't fit an "
"she is so beautiful and musically talented. i see her all the time, but don't often get the chance to talk to her. everything she does is so endearing, it makes my heart melt, but she's taken x("
"why AM I friends with her?"
"sweet and nice"
"all the girls that play lacrosse are so beautiful "
"Nobody loves me frown emoticon"
"Starting when you first meet/like a person, how much time should you give between that period of time and dating?"
"She's a new freshman this year and she got a tj crush on the second day of school. Everyone is talking about her in awe with hushed tones. Gg af. Btw idk u but I've gotta say, you are truly beautiful."
"She's a new freshmen"
"Omg Sophia Pentakalos is the most amazing person I have ever met. First of all, she's GORGEOUS. She's also super smart, nice, and hardworking AND she has so much energy like she actually wants to be here and she's soooo good at public and interpersonal speaking. Like GOALS."
"I'm a freshman and I share two classes with this girl. How do I introduce myself to her?"
"TJ Stuff"
"So there's a guy that I know is going to ask me to homecoming, but I am SCARED TO DEATH of being asked publicly. Help??"
"triggering messages"
"When your crush sits next to you in class is both the best and worst feeling you can have."
"Help I thought I would like tj because i actually really wanted to come here but I go to bed every day in tears because my schedule is messed up and I don't have any friends or support. I thought I could be a new person but I can't because so many ppl already know me and idk I am just so sad and anxious all the time everyone hates me "
"I'm going to kill myself soon. I need help. I don't know what to do."
"I am a freshman and I share two classes with this girl. How do I introduce myself?"
"i kneed you"
"Do you know of our Lord and Savior Deez Nuts? Ha, gotteeem"
"Homecoming?"
"Freshman year I had a huge squish on her. Now it's two years later and I'm crushing hard"
"squish"
"not a crush but I'm a junior who hasn't gone w/someone to hc the past two years. what should I do this year? who should I ask that isn't already "involved" with someone?"
"k" or "wut" on every post. I Want-seok you in my life, and I "k"ant wait any longer. "
"wasn't hot."
"Alex Lewis is the most beautiful person I've ever seen. His eyebrows are so on fleek and they make my mouth water. He thinks he doesn't look good in pictures but he's so hot I love staring at every photo that's ever been taken of him. Alex please notice me I know you hate me but I love you and I've loved you since middle school we're meant to be."
"Since middle school"
"How's the bi/pan community at Tj? "
"we"
"Open Question: is it worth it to date, especially in highschool?"
"be a better person than the person who hurt you."
"Damn there are some hot freshman this year"
"I think it's so attractive when a girl does the things that traditionally guys do. It's just that if I say this people just think I'm a wimp."
"In reference to the Christians calling same gender sex a sin, seeing things like that from people in your own school community is really harmful to LGBT youth. This type of thing directly contributes to the increased chance of emotional and mental health problems in the LGBT community, especially depression. You are literally condemning people for who they are and to pretend otherwise is bullshit. You also said that you didn't want people thinking you're doing this for a publicity stunt...then why post it in such a public place? Stop pretending that this kind of thing doesn't hurt LGBT people because it does."
"ok cool." If you tell me you're gay I'l be like "ok cool." If you tell me you're pan I'll be like "ok cool."
"I'll keep this short: the "fellow Christians"
"I do want to clarify that God actually does condemn homosexuality through the Bible"
"don't do the nasty with dudes if you're a dude,"
"Guys I know this is a facebook page, but enough with the slacktivism. I'm just here to read the over the top romantic thoughts of freshmen. "
"That last one about hitting your kids- TJ sucks at dealing with child abuse. The counselors suck at it, other kids just chalk it up to "you must have strict parents". It's not something that it is ok to come out about, and absolutely nobody gets it in a school with so many helicopter tiger parents. We really really need more support for kids in shitty homes at TJ, because there's nowhere to go with your problems right now."
"helicopter tiger parent"
"strict"
"what do you do when you break off with your bf/gf but still like them kinda"
"Why did you all get shut down before? "
"When I look into Jonathan Ko's eyes I see zebras trotting across the plains of Africa as the sun sets on the savannah. I see flocks of quails sailing across a sunny summer sky after a rain storm in December. I see two monkeys sharing a collection of berries high atop a wet rainforest canopy, lovingly staching berries in the other's mouth. Are these monkeys husband and wife engaging in a wonderful display of vibrant affection? Or is one monkey a wealthy nobleman and sharing his prized fruits with a less fortunate soul in an act of pure love and generous compassion? Or perhaps they are merely strangers, who fell for one another at first sight and are engaging in an inexplicable episode of hot lusty ardor? Whatever the answer to this great mystery is I know it lies in his wondrous eyes and if only I could stare into them for the rest of our lives, perhaps I could solve this eternal riddle. Jonathon Ko's lips look great, like rosy snakes intertwined in zealous love. I even hear they taste great too. Oh Jonathon! My sweet Jonathon! You will forever be my great failure and my great obsession! For love is the zebras! Love is quails! Love is monkeys! And love is two snakes! Love is you, Jonathon Ko!"
"She's so beautiful and we're really close friends but I love her in a way that she'll never love me back and that breaks my heart. "
"I've struggled for so long trying to describe him. I don't know why every time we cross in the hallway my eyes linger, hoping that his will do the same. But my heart has fallen for him just as he fell from the roof last year. Oh Jack, my dearest jack. If only I had the balls to tell you this in person."
""I love you"
"wtf"
"I really think you mean a lot to me. Notice me senpai (though you'll never know who I am) heart emoticon"
"i know he likes me, but he doesn't know that i like him too"
"if it's not okay to hit your wife, why is it okay to hit your children?"
"This is more in the realm of TJ Confess or TJ problems, but here it is. We say that TJ is anti bullying and very accepting, and that's true. But we're all smart and to some extent used to hateful words. That makes us the best bullies there are. Even if there aren't a lot of them, we know exactly what to say to make someone feel inadequate and hurt. We do it without fail."
"Intelligence makes us cynical"
"Kathryn Yang is so hot honestly. I wish I have classes with her but I don't think she even knows who I am. "
"I started loving him as soon as I met him. He helped me through a really dark time and he doesn't even know it. My heart has been broken many times by the one I love without him realizing. After all this, I realized why I still love him. When you truly love someone, nothing can stop that. As long as he's happy I will be happy for him. The heart of the one I love is infinitely more important than mine."
""oh it's just a joke""
"I love you but you don't know who I am."